            APPENDIX 4: MALIGN FOREIGN INFLUENCE
            Introduction
            In the wake of the 2020 U.S. Presidential election, President Donald J. Trump and
               his apologists attempted to blame his loss on foreign interference. They falsely claimed
               that foreign-manufactured voting machines had been manipulated so that votes cast
               for Trump were instead recorded as votes for Joseph R. Biden, Jr.1 No one has ever, either at the time or since, offered any evidence to support Trumps
               assertion. On the contrary, ample evidence collected by the Intelligence Community
               (IC) and reviewed by the Select Committee disproves those claims.
            That is not to say foreign actors made no attempt to influence the American political
               climate during and after the 2020 Presidential election. This appendix evaluates the
               role foreign influence played in the circumstances surrounding the insurrection.2 
            Discussion
            Election Meddling in 2020: Foreign Interference? No. Foreign Influence? Yes. 
            In its postmortem assessment of the 2020 U.S. Presidential election, the Intelligence
               Community comprehensively examined two types of foreign meddling: interference and
               influence. The distinction between the two is critical in evaluating President Trumps
               repeated public assertions that there had been massive and widespread fraud that
               had the effect of stealing the election for then-candidate Biden. 
            For its analytic purposes, the Intelligence Community defines election interference as a subset of election influence activities targeted at the technical aspects of
               the election, including voter registration, casting and counting ballots, or reporting
               results.3 That definition notes that election interference is a subset of election influence, which the Intelligence Community defines to include overt and covert efforts by
               foreign governments or actors acting as agents of, or on behalf of, foreign governments
               intended to affect directly or indirectly a US electionincluding candidates, political
               parties, voters or their preferences, or political processes.4
            The Intelligence Communitys Assessment (ICA) found no factual basis for any allegation
               of technical interference with the 2020 U.S. election: We have no indications that
               any foreign actor attempted to interfere in the 2020 US elections by altering any
               technical aspect of the voting process, including voter registration, ballot casting,
               vote tabulation, or reporting results.5 Put simply, allegations that foreign powers rigged voting machines and swapped ballots
               were false and unsupported. 
            Although there is no evidence of foreign technical interference in the 2020 election,
               there is evidence of foreign influence. Specifically, the Intelligence Communitys
               Assessment concluded that Russian President Putin authorized, and a range of Russian
               government organizations conducted, influence operations aimed at denigrating President
               Bidens candidacy and the Democratic Party, supporting former President Trump, undermining
               public confidence in the electoral process, and exacerbating sociopolitical divisions
               in the US.6 The two Intelligence Community analytic conclusions about the 2020 U.S. Presidential
               electionthat there was evidence of foreign influence, but not foreign interferenceare
               completely consistent.
            Malign Foreign Efforts to Influence the 2020 U.S. Elections
            The 2020 U.S. elections saw an increase in the number of foreign state and non-state
               entities that attempted to influence the U.S. electorate. The U.S. Intelligence Community
               suggests, as a possible explanation, that more such foreign entities may view influence
               operations as important tools for projecting power abroad.7 More ascertainably, [t]he growth of internet and social media use means foreign
               actors are more able to reach US audiences directly, while the tools for doing so
               are becoming more accessible.8 
            The United States principal foreign adversariesRussia, China, and Iranall of them
               autocracies, engage, to varying degrees, in disguised efforts to influence U.S. public
               opinion.9 In the context of these overarching efforts,10 U.S. elections offer special opportunities. 
            For Russia, [e]lections  often serve as an opportune target. But attacks on elections
               are typically just one part of ongoing, multi-pronged operations.11 The U.S. Intelligence Communitys definitive post-election assessment of foreign
               influence activities during the 2020 Presidential election concluded that Russia was
               deeply engaged in disinformation activities intended to influence the outcome by supporting
               President Trump while disparaging then-candidate Biden; Iran also engaged in efforts
               to influence the elections outcome, but unlike Russia, did not actively promote any
               candidate; and that China considered opportunities to influence the elections outcome,
               but ultimately decided that potential costs outweighed any foreseeable benefits.12 Both Russia and Iran worked to undermine the American publics confidence in U.S.
               democratic processes and to deepen socio-political divisions in the United States.13
            Russias Malign Influence Efforts Targeting the United States
            Russian malign disinformation efforts are both strategic in scope and opportunistic
               in nature. They aim to corrode the power and appeal of the U.S. democratic processes,
               worsen U.S. domestic divisions, and weaken America at home and abroad. The Intelligence
               Communitys February 2022 unclassified Annual Threat Assessment puts this sustained
               Russian threat in a nutshell: 
            Russia presents one of the most serious foreign influence threats to the United States,
               using its intelligence services, proxies, and wide-ranging influence tools to try
               to divide Western alliances, and increase its sway around the world, while attempting
               to undermine U.S. global standing, amplify discord inside the United States, and influence
               U.S. voters and decisionmaking.14 
            Russian Disinformation and the 2020 Presidential Election
            Foreign adversaries influence campaigns routinely push disinformation to U.S. audiences.
               Elections offer an important forum for Russia and other U.S. adversaries to seek to
               deepen divisions within American society through disinformation campaigns.15 The Intelligence Community projects that both Russia and China will, for the foreseeable
               future, continue to press their disinformation campaigns attempting to undermine the
               U.S. populations confidence in their government and society.16 Russia certainly did so in the period following the election and preceding the January
               6th attack. 
            The disinformation spread by Russia and its messengers during that time was not, however,
               entirely original. The Intelligence Community Assessment found that Russias disinformation
               engine borrowed President Trumps own words to achieve its goals:
            Russian online influence actors generally promoted former President Trump and his
               commentary, including repeating his political messaging on the election results; the
               presidential campaign; debates; the impeachment inquiry; and, as the election neared,
               US domestic crises.17
            Indeed, President Trumps messaging during and after the 2020 election was reflected
               in Russian influence efforts at the time. In September of 2020, the Department of
               Homeland Securitys Office of Intelligence and Analysis warned that Russia was engaged
               in pre-election activity targeting the U.S. democratic process.18 The bulletin advised that Russia is likely to continue amplifying criticisms of
               vote-by-mail and shifting voting processes amidst the COVID19 pandemic to undermine
               public trust in the electoral process.19 
            Deliberately spreading disinformation to discredit a U.S. election was not new to
               Russias influence arsenal. In the judgment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, it
               is a tactic Russia was prepared to deploy after the 2016 U.S. Presidential election:
            Even after the [2020] election, Russian online influence actors continued to promote
               narratives questioning the election results and disparaging President Biden and the
               Democratic Party. These efforts parallel plans Moscow had in place in 2016 to discredit
               a potential incoming Clinton administration, but which it scrapped after former President
               Trumps victory.20  
            Russian influence efforts in the 2016 and 2020 elections, while distinct in their
               particulars, shared some similarities. Historically, Russia has engaged in near-industrial
               scale online influence efforts.21 The Intelligence Community Assessment states that in 2020, Russia again relied on
               internet trolls to amplify divisive content aimed at American audiences:
            The Kremlin-linked influence organization Project Lakhta and its Lakhta Internet Research
               (LIR) troll farmcommonly referred to by its former moniker Internet Research Agency
               (IRA)amplified controversial domestic issues. LIR used social media personas, news
               websites, and US persons to deliver tailored content to subsets of the US population.
               LIR established short-lived troll farms that used unwitting third-country nationals
               in Ghana, Mexico, and Nigeria to propagate these US-focused narratives. . . .22
            The threats posed by Russias influence efforts are not new, nor are they diminishing.
               The latest unclassified Intelligence Community Annual Threat Assessment throws this
               into sharp relief: 
            Moscow has conducted influence operations against U.S. elections for decades, including
               as recently as the 2020 presidential election. We assess that it probably will try
               to strengthen ties to U.S. persons in the media and politics in hopes of developing
               vectors for future influence operations.23
            Proxies Among Us: Malign Foreign Influence and U.S. Audiences 
            Tech-enabled or not, if ever there was a people business, foreign influence is it.
               People working on behalf of a foreign governmentforeign government officials, their
               agents, and proxieswork to influence, directly or indirectly, a target audience in
               another countryits officials and citizens at large. Most who are engaged in those
               efforts act overtly: ambassadors, consuls general, government delegations and so forth.
               Their foreign influence efforts are not, however, focused on philanthropy or foreign
               aid. Moreover, the perspectives they seek to embed in their target audiences may be
               intentionally and materially inaccurate, propagandistic, or driven by unstated motives.
               In such instances, foreign influence may amount to injecting foreign disinformation
               into the U.S. media ecosystem for re-branding and onward transmission to an American
               audience.24 
            Foreign state adversaries of the United States generally disguise their efforts to
               influence U.S. audiences, particularly when they seek to influence U.S. voters views
               in the run-up to an election. Among the many ways of concealing the foreign-state
               origin or sponsorship of such a message is to use unattributable proxiescut-outsor
               fully independent ideological allies in the United States as messaging organs. A cooperative
               American messengera proxy for the foreign government itselfmay be needed to make
               the foreign-origin message congenial to the target American audience. 
            Malign foreign influencers, including foreign governments, used an additional such
               masking tool during the Trump administration: amplifying U.S.-originated messages
               so that they reached a broader audience. These influencers often took advantage of
               the algorithms by which social media platforms bring congenial messages and other
               information to users whose views are likely to be similar or compatible.
            Shortly after the January 6th attack, the National Intelligence Council summarized
               the scope and significance of Russias use of proxies in the 2020 U.S. Presidential
               election:
            A key element of Moscows strategy this election cycle was its use of proxies linked
               to Russian intelligence to push influence narrativesincluding misleading or unsubstantiated
               allegations against President Bidento US media organizations, US officials, and prominent
               US individuals, including some close to former President Trump and his administration.25
            The success of the proxy depends on shielding its foreign sponsorship. For that reason,
               it can be difficult or impossible to determine conclusively whether someone parroting
               a foreign government adversarys point of view to a U.S. audience is that governments
               controlled proxy or a volunteer taking full advantage of U.S. First Amendment freedoms.
               
            Anti-U.S. Foreign State Propaganda and the January 6th Attack
            U.S. adversaries use anti-American propaganda and disinformation to advance their
               strategic foreign policy objectives. They aim to corrode U.S. influence abroad while
               diluting U.S. citizens trust in their democratic institutions and processes. They
               hope to deepen and sharpen the sociopolitical divisions in American society.26 In doing so, foreign adversaries hope not only to limit U.S. ability to influence
               the policy choices of other foreign states, but also to help immunize their own populations
               against the attractions of American-style democracy.
            That matters, as Russia and other adversaries of the United States well know. If the
               United States has long demonstrated such a globally effective cultural power to attract,
               its corrosion must be a primary strategic objective of Russia or any other of the
               United States principal adversaries. Accordingly, over the next 20 years, the Intelligence
               Community expects that China and Russia probably will try to continue targeting domestic
               audiences in the United States and Europe, promoting narratives about Western decline
               and overreach.27 The January 6th attack played into their hands. 
            President Trump and the 2020 Election as an Opportunity for Foreign Influence
            With President Trump in the White House, Russia benefited from a powerful American
               messenger creating and spreading damaging disinformation it could amplify. The Intelligence
               Communitys comprehensive March 2021 assessment noted that throughout the 2020 Federal
               election cycle, Russian online influence actors generally promoted former President
               Trump and his commentary. . . .28 
            President Trumps relentless propagation of the Big Lie damaged American democracy
               from within and made it more vulnerable to attack from abroad. His actions did not
               go unnoticed by Americas adversaries, who seized on the opportunity to damage the
               United States. According to the Intelligence Communitys March 2021 assessment, [e]ven
               after the election, Russian online influence actors continued to promote narratives
               questioning the election results. . . .29 What President Trump was saying was, in sum, exactly what the Russian government
               wanted saidbut he was doing it on his own initiative and from the trappings of the
               Oval Office.
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Taking the Trump conspiracy theory of manipulated Venezuelan voting machines head-on
                  in an overarching assessment, the Intelligence Communitys definitive post-election
                  assessment stated: We have no information suggesting that the current or former Venezuelan regimes were
                  involved in attempts to compromise US election infrastructure. National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 8, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived).
               2.  For case studies illustrating how such efforts may have manifested at the Capitol
                  on January 6th, see Staff Memo, Case Studies on Malign Foreign Influence, (Dec. 19, 2022).
               3.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), Definitions, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived).
               4.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), Definitions, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived).
               5.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), pp. i, 1, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived) (emphasis removed).
               6.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. i, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived) (emphasis removed).
               7.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 1, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived).
               8.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 1, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived). 
               9.  The U.S. Intelligence Community is well aware of these foreign influence campaigns,
                  including in the context of elections. See, e.g., National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), pp. 45, 7, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived) (Russian state media, trolls, and online proxies, including those directed by Russian
                  intelligence, published disparaging content about President Biden, his family, and
                  the Democratic Party, and heavily amplified related content circulating in US media, p. 4; Irans election influence efforts were primarily focused on sowing discord in the
                  United States and exacerbating societal tensions, p. 5; China has long sought to influence US policies by shaping political and social environments
                  to press US officials to support Chinas positions and perspectives. p. 7). Over the next 20 years, the Intelligence Community assesses that China and Russia probably will try to continue targeting domestic audiences in the
                  United States and Europe, promoting narratives about Western decline and overreach. National Intelligence Council, Global Trends 2040: A More Contested World, (March 2021), p. 94, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/images/globalTrends/GT2040/GlobalTrends_2040_for_web1.pdf (archived).
               10.  The National Intelligence Council notes that some foreign actors may perceive influence activities around US elections as continuations
                  of broad, ongoing efforts rather than specially demarcated campaigns. National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 1, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived). 
               11.  House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy and the
                  Environment, Hearing on Undermining Democracy: Kremlin Tools of Malign Political Influence, Testimony of Laura Rosenberger, 116th Cong., 1st sess., (May 21, 2019), p. 1, available at https://docs.house.gov/meetings/FA/FA14/20190521/109537/HHRG-116-FA14-Wstate-RosenbergerL-20190521.pdf. Ms. Rosenberger was, at the time, Director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy
                  and Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. In an August 2018
                  briefing for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Dr. John Kelly, the chief executive officer of Graphika, an analytics firm that studies online information flows, stated: The data now available make it clear that Russian efforts are not directed against
                  one election, one party, or even one country. We are facing a sustained campaign of organized manipulation, a coordinated attack
                  on the trust we place in our institutions and in our mediaboth social and traditional. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Open Hearing on Foreign Influence Operations Use of Social Media Platforms, Statement of Dr. John W. Kelly, 115th Cong., 2d sess., (Aug. 1, 2018), p. 1, available at https://nsarchive.gwu.edu/document/17963-john-w-kelly-chief-executive-officer-graphika.
               12.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. i, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived). But see, John Ratcliffe, Director of National Intelligence, Views on Intelligence Community Election Security Analysis, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://context-cdn.washingtonpost.com/notes/prod/default/documents/6d274110-a84b-4694-96cd-6a902207d2bd/note/733364cf-0afb-412d-a5b4-ab797a8ba154. (archived). In this memorandum, DNI Ratcliffe, who had been in office seven months and lacked any prior intelligence experience, said he felt the need to lead by example and offer my analytic assessment. He argued that the ICA majoritys high confidence view that China considered but did not deploy influence efforts intended to change the outcome
                  of the US presidential election did not fully and accurately reflect[] the scope of the Chinese governments efforts to influence
                  the 2020 U.S. federal elections. Aside from the DNIs very willingness to conclude, in conformity with then-President Trumps contention but without reference to any supporting data, that the
                  ICs combined analytic judgment on China was wrong, this seems a very odd document
                  for the DNI to have chosen to issue the day after the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol.
               13.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. i, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived).
               14.  Office of the Director of Central Intelligence, Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, (Feb. 2022), at p. 12, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ATA-2022-Unclassified-Report.pdf (emphasis removed).
               15.  The National Intelligence Councils comprehensive post-election assessment covers
                  the spectrum, including not only Russia, but also China, Iran, and others, as well
                  as certain non-state actors. See generally, National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (archived). See also, Dual U.S. / Russian National Charged With Acting Illegally As A Russian Agent In
                  The United States, Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys Office, S. Dist. N.Y.,
                  (Mar. 8, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/dual-us-russian-national-charged-acting-illegally-russian-agent-united-states (archived); Russian National Charged with Conspiring to Have U.S. Citizens Act as
                  Illegal Agents of the Russian Government, Department of Justice, Office of Public
                  Affairs, (July 29, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/russian-national-charged-conspiring-have-us-citizens-act-illegal-agents-russian-government (archived).
               16.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. i, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf.
               17.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 4, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf.
               18.  Department of Homeland Security, Russia Likely to Continue to Undermine Faith in U.S. Electoral Process, Intelligence in Focus, (Sept. 3, 2020), at p. 1, available at https://publicintelligence.net/dhs-russia-undermining-election/.
               19.  Department of Homeland Security, Russia Likely to Continue to Undermine Faith in U.S. Electoral Process, Intelligence in Focus, (Sept. 3, 2020), at p. 1, available at https://publicintelligence.net/dhs-russia-undermining-election/ (emphasis removed).
               20.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), pp. 45, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf.
               21.  Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Russian Active Measures Campaigns And Interference In The 2016 U.S. Election, Volume 2, (Nov. 10, 2020), pp. 1819, available at https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/publications/report-select-committee-intelligence-united-states-senate-russian-active-measures. 
               22.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 4, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf. 
               23.  Office of the Director of Central Intelligence, Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, p. 12, (Feb. 7, 2022), available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ATA-2022-Unclassified-Report.pdf. 
               24.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), at p. 1, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf. 
               25.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 202000078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), at p. i, Key Judgment 2, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf (emphasis removed).
               26.  National Intelligence Council, Emerging Dynamics  International: More Contested, Uncertain, and Conflict Prone 
                  Contested and Transforming International Order  Increasing Ideological Competition, Global Trends 2040, 7th ed., (Mar. 2021), p. 95, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/images/globalTrends/GT2040/GlobalTrends_2040_for_web1.pdf. 
               27.  National Intelligence Council, Emerging Dynamics  International: More Contested,
                  Uncertain, and Conflict Prone  Contested and Transforming International Order  Increasing
                  Ideological Competition, Global Trends 2040, 7th ed., (Mar. 2021) , p. 94, available
                  at  https://www.dni.gov/files/images/globalTrends/GT2040/GlobalTrends_2040_for_web1.pdf.
               28.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 2020-00078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 4, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf. 
               29.  National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, ICA 2020-00078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), p. 4, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA-declass-16MAR21.pdf. 
            
         
         
      
