            APPENDIX 2: DC NATIONAL GUARD PREPARATION FOR AND RESPONSE TO JANUARY 6TH
            Introduction
            H. Res. 503 Section 4(a) directs the Select Committee to examine the facts, circumstances,
               and causes relating to the domestic terrorist attack on the Capitol, including the
               activities of intelligence agencies, law enforcement agencies, and the Armed Forces,
               including with respect to intelligence collection, analysis, and dissemination and
               information sharing among the branches and other instrumentalities of government.
               This appendix focuses on the activities of the DC National Guard in the days leading
               up to and on January 6, 2021.
            In contrast to the National Guard units in 50 States and three territories, where
               deployment authority lies with the governor of those respective jurisdictions, the
               DC Guard falls directly under the command of the United States President. In the discussion
               section below, this appendix provides a narrative of the preparations for and eventual
               deployment of the DC Guard on January 6th, and the interaction between then-President
               Trump and the DC Guard in the relevant time period. It is based on the Select Committees
               interviews of 24 witnesses and review of over 37,000 pages of documents.
            Discussion
            A Gut-wrenching Summer
            The approval process for the deployment of the DC National Guard is unique, unlike
               any of the 50 States or three territories across the country where ultimate authority
               rests in the hands of the governor.1 In the nations capital, where no governorship exists, the Guard is ultimately under
               the command of the President of the United States when acting in its militia capacity
               to support civil authorities.2 By executive order, however, President Richard Nixon delegated the Presidents day-to-day
               control of the DC Guard to the Secretary of Defense and specified that its Commanding
               General should report to the Secretary of Defense or the Secretarys designee.3 By memorandum, the Secretary of Defense, in turn, delegated day-to-day control of
               the DC Guard to the Secretary of the Army.4 The commander of the DC Guard reported directly to the Secretary of the Army on January
               6, 2021.5
            During the 2020 summer protests in response to the murder of George Floyd,6 the approval process for Guard deployment ran smoothly. Very, very proactive, then-Commanding
               General of the DC Guard William Walker said.7 Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy really wanted us out there.8 Secretary McCarthy, with all his authorities, was physically beside Major General
               Walker throughout that summer. [H]e was with me for all of it, Major General Walker
               said.9 He came to the [A]rmory every day. He brought his staff with him.10 As has been widely reported, a number of President Trumps senior advisors, including
               Attorney General Bill Barr, resisted President Trumps requests to deploy the Guard
               or other troops in various states and cities where violence had occurred or was underway.11
            In the summer of 2020, nothing was being written down; it was just all verbal back
               and forth.12 That approach sped up response times. But as the DC Guard footprint grew and controversies
               began plaguing the operation, Secretary McCarthy came away with the lesson that deliberative
               and by written order beat fast and by oral command.13
            What we learned in the process was we were not capturing a lot of the information
               in writing in the orders process, which is fundamental, foundational because of the
               stress of the situation and the speed of the situation, Secretary McCarthy said.14
            While a concept of operations (con-op) was developed at the lower level during the
               summer 2020 operations, it did not require approval or input at the secretary level.15 That approach came to be seen as a mistake that should not be replicated the next
               time there was a civil disturbance crisis in the nations capital. General Walter
               Piatt, director of the Army staff, explained: Thats where Secretary McCarthy put
               that restriction to say, I want a concept of the operation before we just send a force
               to do something.16
            One of the most visible and highly criticized of the summer 2020 operations was the
               use of low-flying helicopters that appeared to be bearing down on protesters with
               the aim of dispersing them. On June 1st, as Guard presence tripled overnight, the
               use of helicopters meant for aerial surveillance17 somehow got translated to a very competent Army officer that I am to fly low and
               loud to deter looters, General Piatt said.18 [W]hat the investigation revealed was that we did not have good procedures in place
               to provide military support to a very serious civil disturbance ongoing. Thebecausethe
               pilot of that aircraft believed that was his mission.19
            The embarrass[ment]20 of the low-flying helicopter affected Secretary McCarthy. General Charles Flynn,
               then- deputy chief of staff for operations, plans, and training, told the Select Committee,
               I know the Secretary was concerned.21 He further explained: Im sure that affected his thinking.22
            Secretary McCarthy became convinced that a concept of operations needed to be explicit,
               tailored23 andmost importantlythat it needed to come from [the] top down.24 Secretary McCarthy told his staff, [W]hen we get a request next time, we have to
               be absolutely certain that we understand the mission clearly,25 and that no other civil authority could re-mission off that support without the
               approval of either the Secretary of the Army or, in certain circumstances, the Secretary
               of Defense.26
            In mid-June 2020, then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper, Secretary McCarthy, Chairman
               of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark Milley, and Major General Walker huddled
               to talk about what went wrong in the preceding weeks. Senior defense officials then
               decided they would take a more active role in directing the force.27 [A]s a result, we all took a more active interest in what was happening down to
               the tactical level to make sure that we were, again, abiding by kind of the core principles
               of civil-military relations, former Secretary Esper said.28
            Major General Walker said he was not told about that shift in perspective: [I]f the
               Army thought different of how we respond to civil unrest, civil disturbance, I would
               hope . . . they would communicate that with the guywith the person who is going to
               execute that change.29
            In the words of General Milley, the summer of 2020 had been a pretty gut-wrenching
               experience.30 The Department of Defense was still recovering when it was faced with the decision
               of the manner and degree to which the DC Guard should provide assistance to law enforcement
               authorities planning, just seven months later, for the events anticipated in connection
               with Congressional certification of the electoral votes on January 6, 2021.
            A Tailored Request for Guard Resources
            On December 19, 2020, President Trump tweeted, Big protest in DC on January 6th.
               Be there! Will be wild! From that day forward, a rookie DC intelligence analyst saw
               a tenfold uptick in violent rhetoric targeting Congress and law enforcement.31 Right-wing groups were sharing histories of violence and some not traditionally aligned
               had begun coordinating their efforts. 32 The analysts report reached more senior DC leadership, including, eleven days later,
               Mayor Bowser.33 In the course of the Committees investigation, it received and reviewed a significant
               number of documents indicating that certain intelligence and law enforcement agencies
               understood that violence was possible or even likely on January 6th. The Committee
               received many of those materials from the U.S. Secret Service, but also from other
               agencies as well.
            On Thursday, December 31, 2020, the day after the briefing, Mayor Bowser sent a letter
               to Major General Walker requesting Guard assistance for January 5 and 6, 2021.34 A second letter specified the Districts request as limited to two forms of assistance:
               crowd management at Metro stations and blocking vehicles at traffic posts. It did not request help with potential civil disturbance.35
            General Piatt viewed the limited request36 as a pretty good, tailored mission, that was not vague.37 General James McConville, chief of staff of the Army, called the request appropriately
               restricted38 with a very low military signature.39
            According to testimony by Defense Department witnesses, after a summer of perceived
               overreach, military leadership was grateful for the delineated parameters set by the
               city itself.
            The substance of the requestlimited to traffic and crowd control so they could have
               more police officers to do police functions40was not seen as narrow by District officials. I would say its a specific request,
               Chief of DC Police (Metropolitan Police Department (MPD)) Robert Contee said.41 [L]eave the unlawful stuff, leave that to the police to deal with.42 Mayor Bowser said: I dont know any law enforcement person who would suggest that
               urban disturbances arent best handled by the police.43
            Civil disturbance was not something we requested at that time. Mostly also because
               the vast majority of the, if not all, of the permitted protests were taking place
               on Federal lands, said Director of the DC Homeland Security and Emergency Management
               Agency Christopher Rodriguez.44 The District had no jurisdiction. Mayor Bowser cannot make a request on behalf of
               the White House or on behalf of the Capitol for U.S. Capitolfor . . . DC National
               Guardsmen to deploy to those two entities. She cant, Chief Contee said.45 At this time, it was well known that President Trump had planned a speech and rally
               on Federal landson the Ellipse south of the White House. It was not widely known
               that President Trump intended to spontaneously instruct the tens of thousands of
               supporters at that Ellipse rally to march down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol.46
            Five Days of Tremendous Resistance
            At first, Secretary McCarthy was not sold on involving the Guard at all. Major General
               Walker called Secretary McCarthy instantly when I got the letters from the District
               on Thursday, December 31st, and initially I felt I must have caught him at a bad
               time.47 Secretary McCarthy recalls it being a short conversation. I said, okay, got it.
               Thank you. You want to immediately flip it so that Secretary of Defense knows that
               we alerted his office, he said.48
            According to Major General Walkers account of this call, the Secretary initially
               stated Were not doing it, 49 and then left the door open for further discussion. Major General Walker explained:
               I said, Well, sir, I think you should look at it. And then he told me, Well,
               well talk about it, but we dont really want to do this, because the look it would
               give, the military out there interfering. . . . He says, Well, well discuss it
               on Monday.50
            On Sunday, January 3rd, Secretary McCarthy called Chief Contee, who had formally assumed
               the role of acting head of MPD just the day before.51
            I thought initially that . . . he is just calling me basically as a rubber stamp
               to say, . . . You asked for it, you got it. . . . It didnt go that way, Chief
               Contee said.52 [H]e had concerns about deploying National Guard for this event. He talked about
               the optics of the event, having boots on the ground. . . . And I pushed back on that.53
            In his interview with the Select Committee, Secretary McCarthy described evaluating
               the request on the evening of January 3rd. I sat at home. I chewed on it, he said.54 You know, Im not particularly inclined to support it, because my concern was really
               we didnt have a command-and-control architecture in place. We didnt really have
               all of the mechanisms to be successful, you know. . . . So it was a very tough decision
               for me.55
            Over five days, from December 31st to January 4th, District officials faced what Major
               General Walker called tremendous resistance.56
            Both Chief Contee and Director Rodriguez recalled that five-day period on January
               6th, when Chief Steven Sund, of the U.S. Capitol Police, was pleading for reinforcements.57 Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller, heard through the grapevine that [Secretary
               McCarthy] was inclinedI dont want to say inclined to disapprove, but, you know,
               looking at it carefully or whatever. Sobut thats fine. He can do whatever he wants.
               I knew that I was going to honor [the mayors] request . . . .58
            How close those Guard assets could go to the Capitol became a sticking point. Colonel
               Craig Hunter, the highest-ranking commander on the ground on January 6th, said the
               Army really want[ed] to go through the concept of operations to see, okay, exactlybasically
               Metro stop by Metro stop, intersection by intersection, to see where will Guardsmen
               be exactly, you know, how close are you to the Capitol . . . .59 He said an initial request by MPD to post Guard troops at the South Capitol Metro
               stationlike all other Metro stationswas denied.60 In conference calls that went back and forth,61 Major General Walker was told, There was a concern about being too close, military
               uniforms too close to the Capitol.62
            Major General Walker had a different perspective. He saw his people as citizen soldiers,
               your neighbors that are going to come to your aid and rescue when you need us,63not traditional boots on the ground. [T]hats where, to me, the vest came in. This
               was the National Guard, not the Army, he said.64
            Military authorities determined that a geographical boundary would have to be established
               as a condition of approving the Guards deployment to assist MPD. No servicemember
               could go east of Ninth Street. It wasnt made explicit to District officials, but
               they all knew what lay east. [T]he Capitol is east, Chief Contee said.65 [I]f you move them anywhere east of Ninth Street, they will be close to the Capitol.
               That was certainly the way I understood it.66
            Director Rodriguez worried that it constrained our ability to react quickly if the
               situation got out of hand.67 Without the limitation, the District fully intended to post its resources farther
               east: [W]e couldnt get as close to the Capitol as could have been helpful, Mayor
               Bowser said.68 [W]e would have had a broader traffic box.69
            Fears of Politicizing the Military in an Antidemocratic Manner
            Both Acting Secretary Miller and Secretary McCarthy were sensitive to the sight of
               troops near the site of the Congressional certification of electoral votes, because
               of President Trumps previous expression of interest in using Federal troops in civilian
               situations. Again, Attorney General Barr and other members of the Trump Administration
               had resisted President Trumps desire to deploy such troops. Secretary Esper said
               it tended to be the case . . . that the President was inclined to use the military, contrary to longstanding principles of reserving the armed forces as a last resort.70
            According to his testimony, Acting Secretary Millers express first priorityafter
               being installed with just two months left in the Trump administrationwas to make
               every effort to return the Department of Defense to a nonpoliticized entity, because
               previously, the Department was being showcased too much.71 In testimony to the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Reform on May 12, 2021,
               he cited fears that the President would invoke the Insurrection Act to politicize
               the military in an antidemocratic manner as shaping his thinking.72 No such thing was going to occur on my watch, he wrote,73 later adding that if I would have put troops on Capitol Hill before the attack
               and without a request from civil authorities, that would have been seen as extremely
               provocative, if not supporting this crazy narrative that the military was going to
               try to overturn the election.74
            Secretary McCarthy felt similar pressure. He had been taken aback whenas he was walking
               down the Pentagons hallwaysone of the most seasoned reporters asked him whether
               the Army was planning to seize ballot boxes.75 It was an incredibly tense period, according to Secretary McCarthy.76 As our investigation has demonstrated, President Trump had considered proposals from
               Lt. General (ret.) Michael Flynn, Sidney Powell, and others that troops be utilized
               to seize ballot boxes in certain parts of the country.
            On December 18, 2020the same day as the contentious White House meeting with Flynn
               and others,Secretary McCarthy issued a statement, mirror[ing] what General Milley
               said about a month before,77 reiterating that There is no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome
               of an American election.78 Given the heat of the rhetoric, he thought, [I]f we dont say anything, its going
               to scare people.79 Secretary McCarthy told the Select Committee he thought he would be fired after publicly
               stating that the military would not assist in a coup.80 General McConville, who signed the statement alongside Secretary McCarthys signature,81 linked their words directly to the Ninth Street limitation: [T]here was no plan
               to put any military anywhere near the Capitol because of what we had said, the military
               has no role in determining the outcome of elections.82
            On January 1st, Executive Officer to Secretary McCarthy Colonel John Lubas wrote in
               an internal email that the Secretary wants to clearly communicate that this request
               is NOT from the White House.83 The email noted that the Secretary wanted to aggressively message that the request
               had come from District officials, not the President.84
            We wanted everybody to know that, because it would create confusion and even more
               tension of having soldiers on the street without a request and that they be near the
               Capitol with certification of an election, a contested election, Secretary McCarthy
               said.85
            On January 3, 2021, 10 former Secretaries of Defense, including the recently fired,
               former Secretary Esper, published a joint op-ed warning that [i]nvolving the military
               in election disputes would cross into dangerous territory.86 Secretary McCarthy had himself worked for five of the 10 secretaries.87 I know all these [men], he said.88 [T]hey wereeveryone was telling us, be very conscious of your actions and how youyou
               know, what youre going to do that day. So we wanted to know where every soldier was
               by street corner.89
            Was Secretary McCarthy concerned that President Trump might use the military to cling
               to power? There was a lot of talk in the lead-up about martial law . . . and the
               employment of forces, and you know, that was something that we were all, you know,
               conscious of.90 Our investigation suggests that those civilian and military officials who had considerable
               experience working directly with President Trump had genuine concerns about whether
               he would attempt to use the military to change the election results. Again, at this
               time, there is no evidence the Department of Defense understood exactly what President
               Trump and his associates planned for January 6th.
            Very Strict on the Use of the Military on January 6th
            By Monday, January 4th, with Secretary McCarthy now backing the operation, Acting
               Secretary Miller was briefed. He told the Select Committee that he made the decision
               right there to honor the request.91 That approval came with strings attached. The role of the DC Guard would be spelled
               out and tightly circumscribed in a memorandum that, as characterized by General Milley,
               was very strict on the use of the military.92 It decreed that without the Acting Secretarys subsequent, personal authorization,
               the Guard would not be issued batons, helmets, or body armor; could not interact physically
               with protestors, except in self-defense; and that the Quick Reaction Force (QRF)40
               servicemembers staged in case of an emergency at Joint Base Andrews in Prince Georges
               County, Marylandcould be deployed only as a last resort.93
            Above the tactical level, changes in the mission of the Guard had to be approved by
               the Secretary of the Army and, in some casesin order to interact physically with
               protestors or be issued batonsrequired running further up the chain to the Secretary of Defense.94
            To District officials, that seemed newand unnecessary. [The Secretary told us,]
               if you send them to any other kind of mission, that has to get approval from me. And
               I just think that those were unnecessary restrictions . . . Chief Contee said.95
            What the QRF would be called upon to do, even in the case of an emergency, is a matter
               of debate. The letter and memorandum do not expressly note whether the QRF could be
               used to support the original mission of the Guardtraffic and crowd controlor a new
               mission helping contain sudden and out-of-hand civil disturbance.96 The DC Guard official put in charge of the QRF for January 5th and 6th, Lieutenant
               Colonel David Reinke, said he had not been given much guidance as to their role.97
            The Army and the DC Guard appear to have had different understandings. [T]he intent
               of the quick reaction force was really to send these troops over to help if they had
               a problem at one of the traffic command posts, General McConville said.98 There never was an intent for a quick reaction force to go to the Capitol . . .
               . 99 According to Army officials, without a con-op and a formal change in mission, the
               QRF could do traffic control and no more.
            That was not how others imagined an emergency unit would or should operate. According
               to Major General Walker, a quick reaction force, somethings happening; do I have
               time to find you and call you and ask you?100 He called the preapproval language highly unusual,101 particularly as their name already implied that its a last resort,102 their intended purpose was if [u]nexpectedly, you have a spontaneous unrest,103 and if I need to write a concept of operations for a quick reaction force? Theyre
               no longer quick. Its just a reaction force.104
            Capitol Police Board Prepared without Guard Help
            It wasnt clear to everyone involved in planning for the events anticipated on January
               6th that all agencies, including the Capitol Police, were deploying all their resources
               ahead of that day. We had had issues understanding, getting the full picture of U.S.
               Capitol Polices operational posture and what their planning was, Director Rodriguez
               said.105
            Mayor Bowser was struck whenright before the press briefing that Monday, January
               4ththe mayor asked the Capitol Police representative, [W]here does your perimeter
               start? [And h]e gets up out of the room, calls somebody. And the next thing I know
               he cant participate in the conference.106 She elaborated: [T]hat should have been like a trigger to me. Like these people,
               they dont want to answer questions about their preparation.107
            On the morning of January 3rd, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund approached two of
               the members of the Capitol Police Board and purportedly requestedbut concededly did
               not push forGuard resources for the Capitol.108 According to Chief Sund, in a minutes long meeting in the office of House Sergeant
               at Arms Paul Irving, Irving told Chief Sund he did not like the optics of asking for
               the Guard in advance and that the intelligence did not support it.109 Chief Sund said he did not push back on either point.110 In fact, he agreed that his reading of the intelligencedespite a forewarning put
               out by his own intelligence unit that Congress was itself the target on January
               6th111did not call for Guard support,112 only that having more personnel on his perimeter would make him more comfortable.113 Irving suggested he talk to the Senate Sergeant at Arms, and then-chairman of the
               Capitol Police Board, Michael Stenger.114 According to Irving, Stenger, in a meeting in his office, asked Chief Sund to reach
               out to the Guard and find out, if an emergency called for it, how many people can
               [the commanding general] give us and how quickly can he give us those people?115 Chief Sund said he took their responses to mean no, despite conceding that he was
               never told you cannot have the National Guard or anything to that effect.116 It was 100 percent a denial, he maintained.117
            Irving recalled the matter coming up on a three-way phone conference during which
               the consensus was that we didnt need the Guard.118 He did not consider it a request.119 On the call, Chief Sund noted that the District planned to use the servicemembers
               to staff intersections, but the Capitol grounds had few of those, and it would not
               relieve many officers if they were used in a similar fashion.120 It was a combination of operationally the chief didnt feel that they would add
               much to his plan, and the intelligence really didnt speak for anything that we felt
               would justify the need for them, Irving said.121 Irving doesnt recall taking the optics into consideration.122 According to Irving, the conversation ended the same way Chief Sund said it had:
               Why dont you just tell them to be on standby? Stenger suggested.123 It was never brought up again.124
            The discussion about the use of the Guard remained within the Capitol Police Board
               and did not reach congressional leadership, including the Speaker of the House. That
               was normal. [F]rom a tactical perspective, we would make decisions without the input
               from congressional leadership, Irving said.125 I always felt that I had full authority to implement security decisions as I deemed
               appropriate.126 In fact, when the three men briefed congressional leaders on January 5th, Chief Sund
               conveyed the same optimistic outlook as he had with Major General Walker: [We told
               them] we felt we were prepared based on the information we had, yes, he said.127
            To keep these exchanges in perspective, we note again that we are aware of no evidence
               that these individuals were privy to President Trumps plans to instruct tens of thousands
               of his supporters to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol to help take back
               their country. Nor were they aware of how President Trump would suggest to his followers
               that Vice President Pence had the authority to change the outcome of the election,
               or how President Trump would behave in the hours that followed. Certain members of
               Congress, including those who met at the White House on December 21, 2020, may have
               had considerably more insight into President Trumps planning, but the Committee has
               no information suggesting that any of those members alerted the Capitol Police or
               other authorities of President Trumps plans.
            Soldiers Prepare for the Worst in Secret
            Guard reinforcements could draw from a pool of three groups already activated for
               the day: (1) the 40 members making up the QRF, staged in Maryland;128 (2) the 90 members at the traffic control points, 24 at the Metro stations, and four
               as part of the command staff distributed throughout the citybut no farther east than
               Ninth Streetfor a total of 118 representing the first shift;129 and (3) the second shift of another 118 members,130 preparing at the Armory in Southeast Washington, D.C, for a 3:00 p.m. shift takeover.131 The Armory also housed a command-and-control squad that handled logistics at about
               52 members strong, in addition to a Civil Support Team of about 20 members.132 That gave Colonel Hunter a maximum limit of 348 activated servicemembers, eight more
               than the allotted 340nearly all of whom reported directly to him on January 6th.133
            The QRF was most prepared for responding to sudden and escalating civil unrest. At
               Joint Base Andrews, they were provisioned with full riot-control kits,134 including a helmet with a face shield already attached, protective vest, shin guards,
               knee guards, shield, and baton.135 The head of the QRFhimself provided little guidance on the contours of his missionhad
               his squad train for civil disturbance on January 5th and the morning of the 6th as
               they waited.136 Not only had they trained, but they trained together, as a unita benefit military officials all agreed is ideal. Army leadership, all
               the way up to Secretary McCarthy,137 had no idea that Lt. Col. Reinke had taken these initiatives. Secretary McCarthy
               agreed that had he known of their civil disturbance preparation, it could have affected
               the speed with which approval was ultimately given for their deployment.138
            As to the second group of available resourcesthe servicemembers stationed at traffic
               control points since the early morning of January 6thArmy leadership held misconceptions
               about what equipment was available to them. Secretary McCarthy had agreed that some
               gearexpressly not batonscould remain stowed away in vehicle trunks.139 Colonel Hunter had his troops put the gear into a white box truck instead and designated
               a rally point for the truck that would be central to all traffic control points.140 On the night of January 5th, in anticipation of January 6th, Colonel Hunter had his
               troops move the civil disturbance gearincluding the prohibited batonsinto the individual
               vehicles themselves.141 Captain Tarp, the head of the second shift, agreed that they were told to load the
               equipment into their vehicles on the down low. Done so it wasnt visible, so it wouldnt
               look like we were escalating [our] role.142
            The commanding general of the DC Guard was aware that the troops had all they needed
               in their trunks andin the case of an emergencywould not need to return to the Armory
               to get it: They already had it, Major General Walker said.143
            But Army leadership did not know that. Although General Piatt said We never asked,
               like, what was actuallyI have no knowledge of what they [actually] had in the vehicles,144 the guidance from Secretary McCarthys letter led him to believe that weapons, ammunition,
               batons, shields, kneepads, other protection that we may be asked to do for civil disturbance,
               that was not [there]because they were specifically told they would not participate
               in that mission . . . .145 Secretary McCarthy said, The only thing I authorized General Walker to do was their
               ballistic helmets and body armor in the vehicle, not their shields or their riot batons.146 He figured his orders had been followed.147 When asked why he was not aware of the moves the Guard had made, Secretary McCarthy
               said, I mean, I made a mistake. I think a local unit commander was anticipating more
               than what potentially we were prepared for.148
            DC Guard leadership understood that loading this equipment flouted direct orders.
               I wasnt going to have my soldiers unprepared, Major General Walker said.149 The prohibition on batons, in particular, had been sent 54 minutes after the Guard
               had already begun their traffic control shifts on the morning of January 5th.150
            The third group of available resourcesthe servicemembers awaiting at the Armory to
               take over as the second shift at the traffic control pointshad equipment accessible
               to them at headquarters. Captain Tarp did note that it took time to ensure that the
               Armory equipment was in working order: repairing straps that were broken, wiping off
               dirt on the shields because they were the same from the George Floyd protests, and
               affixing the helmet to the shields, which took upwards of 20 to 30 minutes.151 In the three different locations where the Guard was stationed as the Capitol was
               being breached, all servicemembers had access to full civil disturbance gear right
               there with them.
            Outside of the QRF, which had recently returned from two days of training together,
               there is debate as to how ready the rest of the Guard was to engage in civil disturbance
               response on January 6th. The notion that the military is not primed or naturally skilled
               to deal with civil disturbance appears to stand in tension with National Guard traditions,
               training, and doctrine. They were not missioned, tasked, organized, equipped to do
               civil disturbance operations, General Flynn said.152 Although General Piatt conceded that [a]ll soldiers are trained in civil disturbance,
               he maintained that on that day we were not postured to do civil disturbance operations.153
            Major General Walkerwho pointed out that the DC Guard shield, on Guard troop uniforms,
               features the Capitol building itself: Protect the Capitol. Thats why Thomas Jefferson
               created it154called civil disturbance foundational to what they do.155
            DC Ground Commander Takes Initiative
            On January 5th, as he led his forces in traffic control, Colonel Hunter did not observe
               activity that raised concerns.156 But by the next morningas thousands of out-of-towners invited by President Trump
               descended on the nations capitalthat all changed. I could see like the Proud Boys,
               he said.157 I could see different people with Kevlars on, with bulletproof vests on. You know,
               theyre all kitted up and theyre wearing different patches and colors. And I said,
               Well, this crowd is definitely different . . . .158 This, of course, was an indication of the potential for violence in the hours that
               followed.
            Colonel Hunter, sitting at the intersection of 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue,
               saw crowds flowing past him and his soldiers toward the Capitolwalking as one, chanting
               as one. Hey, is it that way to the Capitol? Wheres the Capitol? some asked.159 Colonel Hunter got in his car and began writing an update report.160
            He was interrupted by a soldier who had been watching CNN on his phone: Hey, sir,
               I think theres been shots fired at the Capitol.161 It was then that Colonel Hunter began to put a plan in place for the redeployment
               of the Guard. So at that point in my mind I said, Okay, then they will be requesting
               the DC National Guard now, so we have to move.162 The time was 2:12 p.m.163
            The first thing he did was designate a rally point for DC Guard reinforcements.164 Over the radio, he relayed the rally point to all 118 members currently spread across
               the city doing traffic control, and one by one, in order by their points, they called
               in to acknowledge where they would go once approval came down.165 At 2:17 p.m., he called Lt. Col. Reinke, the head of the 40-strong QRF, and ordered
               his subordinate to have all of your guys put their gear on and get on the bus.166 In my mind, this is about to happen really fast, he said.167 As soon as I make one call, I will get clearance to go and support. The United States
               Capitol was breached. I mean, this is unheard of.168 Accordingly, he advised Lt. Col. Reinke that, [W]e will be getting a call soon.169
            He next tried to find the incident command post. He ran into the Assistant MPD Chief
               Jeffery Carroll, piled into a car and, sirens flipped on, sped off to U.S. Capitol
               Police headquarters.170
            Once there, they got into the elevator, and before the doors even closed, Assistant
               Chief Carroll asked him, How many do you have coming right now?171 Colonel Hunter said, Im working on it. I need to make some calls, but we arewere
               coming . . . . And I said, as soon as I start making these calls, Im going to have
               so many National Guardsmen just flooding this way. I just need to have the location,
               have the plan set, be ready to receive them.172
            No later than 2:50 p.m., Colonel Hunter had confirmed with Lt. Col. Reinke that the
               QRF was on the bus and ready.173 The highest-ranking Guard official on the ground had sorted out all of the details
               and linked up with the law enforcement agencies that would lead them in support. At
               least 135 National Guard servicemembersthe 40 QRF members already in gear and on
               the bus and the 90 at traffic control posts awaiting word, with gear in their trunks
               to be donned at the rally point, along with four command staff plus Colonel Hunter
               himselfwere ready to go. At 3:10 p.m., Colonel Hunter felt it was time to tell his
               superiors all that he had done and hopefully get fast approval.174
            3 Hours and 19 Minutes
            At the Capitol, MPD Chief Contee was on the West Front, himself inhaling chemical
               agentsyou can smell it before you see it, felt it in my throat175as officers tried to resist rioters beating back the perimeter, having reached the
               stage built for the Inauguration set for two weeks later. [T]he gas stuff and the
               spray, the mist thats in the air, I mean, its real, he said.176 Im trying to talk to the Mayor to give her a situational update, and the city administratorIve
               got them both on the line. Im coughing, trying to explain whats going on.177 Chief Contee cut through the crowds of people around the Capitol to meet the mayor
               at MPD headquarters.178
            Chief Sund said he reached out to House Sergeant at Arms Irving at 12:57 or 12:58
               p.m., and told him, We are getting overrun on the West Front by thousands. We need
               the National Guard now.179 Irving recalled the call coming before a break in the electoral certification session
               just short of 1:30 p.m. and that the Chief said that conditions were deteriorating
               outside and he might be making a request for the National Guard.180 Although Irving was firm in his stance that only the Capitol Police Board had the
               authority to request National Guard assistance, he nonetheless sought out the chief
               of staff to the Speaker to inform her of the impending request.181 He did not need her to sign off, but [a]ny change in security posture, given the
               time, I would give them a heads-up.182
            The Speakers chief of staff immediately scribbled down a note and went over to
               inform the Speakerwho was in the chair presiding over the floor debate on the Arizona
               objectionsabout the request for the National Guard.183 Absolutely. Go, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.184 Later, as they were evacuating the floor to an undisclosed location, the Speaker
               asked her, Is the National Guard coming?185 The Speakers chief of staff said, Yes, we asked them.186
            Irving said the formal request for Guard assistance came in a call after 2 p.m. from
               Chief Sund and, of course, we said absolutely.187 Chief Sund said he had made the request in that earlier 12:57 or 12:58 call and had
               been waiting for 71 minutes.188 I hung up the phone. I yelled across the command center, [M]ark the time, 2:10,
               I finally got approval from the Capitol Police Board for the use of the National Guard,
               Chief Sund said.189
            At around 2:30 p.m., Director Rodriguez patched Chief Conteeand a largely silent
               Mayor Bowser listening in190into the conference call with Chief Sund and Major General Walker, who brought in
               General Piatt.191 Major General Walker ordered his aide-de-camp on his second day on the job, Lt. Timothy
               Nick, to take handwritten notes of the call and the rest of the day.192
            On the line at the Pentagongathered around the speaker of the Secretary of the Armys
               desk phonewere General Piatt, General McConville, and Secretary McCarthy.193 According to Secretary McCarthy, it was during the call that he learned the Capitol
               had been breached,194 watching it unfold in real time on television.195 He didnt recall hearing Chief Sunds voice on the call, but said we were trying
               to get . . . what we call the operational sight picture. What is going on? How big
               is the crowd? How violent is the crowd? . . . They started laying out really thejust
               how bad it was.196 Secretary McCarthy resolved to run to the office of Acting Secretary of Defense Miller,
               leaving behind instructions to General Piatt to find out the requirements, as he
               was going to get the authority.197 [W]e go zipping down there, General McConville said.198 As they were leaving, General Flynn showed up.199
            General Flynn said, when I came by the phone, he heard voices screaming on the
               end.200 He called the tones of their voices as chaotic201 and that [y]ou couldnt tell who was talking sometimes.202 Chief Sund was pleading for help. I want to say he even used the word, like, I
               am pleading, Chief Contee said.203 Col. Matthews, listening in beside Major General Walker, said of Chief Sund: His
               voice was cracking. He was almost crying.204
            According to Chief Contee, the reaction to his pleas was tepid.205 It was a very sluggish response, Chief Contee said.206 I remember just, you know, with all that was going on, not hearing a yes, you
               know, just . . . what I would in my mind qualify as, like, excuses and not decisive
               action. . . I was hearing, like, all the reasons, you know, why we shouldnt be doing
               this.207 Director Rodriguez called it a kind of bureaucratic response in the midst of a
               rapidly evolving situation where literally the Capitol was being overrun.208 He added: I dont want to use the word disinterested, but more just, lets just
               hold on. Lets just wait. Lets just kind of calm down for a second while literally
               Rome is burning.209
            For his part, General Flynn depicted General Piattthe main interlocutoras the calming
               voice in an otherwise chaotic situation.210 General McConville agreed: I talked to some of my staff, and they said that General
               Piatt did an incredible job. He was like theyou know, in a very calm [voice], just
               saying, lets just settle . . . .211
            But Major General Walker said he just couldnt believe nobody was saying: Hey, go.212 He asked the generals on the other line, Arent you watching the news? Cant you
               see whats going on? We need to get there. And [I was] cognizant of the fact that
               Im talking to senior . . . people, but I could see what was happening . . . .213 Chief Sund was perplexed and dumbfounded.214 It wasnt what I expected of, yeah, the cavalrys coming. It was a bunch of, round-the-house,
               oh, hey, lets do this, lets do that, he said.215 I was borderline getting pretty pissed off.216
            Many participants on the call say General Piatts stated concern was the optics of
               sending troops to the site of a democratic process.
            [T]he infamous talk about optics. That came up again. There was talk about boots
               on the ground again. You know, thats not good optics, having boots on the ground,
               Chief Contee said.217 He recalled how Secretary McCarthy had vocalized the same hesitance during the five-day
               deliberation preceding January 6th.218
            Director Rodriguez believed General Piatt replied to the request by saying, [W]e
               dont like the optics of having military personnel at the Capitol against peaceful
               protesters.219
            He recalls Chief Contee replying bluntly, [W]ell, theyre not peaceful anymore.220
            Major General Walker heard one of the Army generals say it wouldnt be their best
               military advice or guidance to suggest to the Secretary that we have uniformed presence
               at the Capitol.221 He added: They were concerned about how it would look, the optics.222 Chief Sund heard the general use the word twice.223 General Piatt saidand I will never forget thisYeah, I dont know. Im concerned
               about the optics of the National Guard standing a line with the Capitol in the background,
               Chief Sund said.224 [M]y officers are getting beaten, and theyre worried about the optics of the National
               Guard.225
            Although General Piatt denies explicitly using the word opticsI dont recall ever
               saying that word on that phone call, because at the time it just wasnt important226he agreed that he said use of the Guard was not my best military judgment or my
               best military advice.227 He said he made a couple of suggestions that were not well-received,228 including if there was any other facility where we could go and relieve police.
               . . I think they took that as I was saying no, because they immediately came back
               and said, youre denying our request.229
            General McConvillewho wasnt present at the timesaid he talked to people in the
               room about the use of the word optics, and some people said, No, it wasnt said.
               And then some people said it was said.230 Nonetheless, the sentiment behind it should not be a particularly controversial one,
               according to General McConville. People like to use opticsIm going to stay away
               because thats a political term in my eyes. But what type of signature do you want
               on the streets in Washington, DC? Do you want a police signature? Do you want a military
               signature? Do you want a Federal signature? he said.231 [T]hat creates a reaction from the American people, and we need to think our way
               through that . . .232
            On the call, talk of needing a planthe so-called con-op that had been a lesson learned
               from the summeremerged. [A]fter the optics, . . . then it was, you know, they wanted,
               like, specific information. There was something they were talking about, like, mission
               and . . . what exactly theyre going to be doing when they get there, Chief Contee
               said.233 Before running off, Secretary McCarthy had instructed General McConville to put together
               a plan: My charter, my direction from him is to get a plan. Were gonna support;
               I just wanted to get something to support with.234 But he acknowledged the impression nonetheless remained that he was denying or pushing
               back.235
            That impression was made explicit: They said three times to me clearly, Youre denying
               my request, General Piatt said.236
            Chief Contee interrupted Chief Sund mid-sentence and said, Wait a minute. Hold
               up. Let me make sure that I understand this correctly . . . [A]re you asking for support
               from the National Guard at the U.S. Capitol?237
            Chief Sund said, Yes.238
            Chief Contee then addressed the Army generals: Are you guys honoring his request?
               I asked them that. And they didnt say no, but they also didnt say yes.239 Chief Sund recalled it the same way.240
            General Piatt said he was clear in my response, I dont have any authority to deny
               or approve. The Secretary is getting approval.241
            [T]he third time when they said, Youre denying our request, they also said, And
               were going to go to the media, General Piatt said.242 [W]e were desperate. Everyone was desperate. So Im not angry at that, but I just
               knew it wasnt helpful, so we told that to Secretary McCarthy.243
            As for the threat to go public, Major General Walker said, I remember that very clearly.244 According to him, after the generals would not say yes or no, Chief Contee says:
               Im going to call the mayor and ask her to have a press conference saying that the
               Army is not going to allow the DC Guard to come and support.245 General Piatt reportedly replied, Please dont do that. I dont have the authority
               to authorize the National Guard to go. So please dont do that. Please dont hold
               the press conference.246 Chief Contee doesnt recall saying that.247 Mayor Bowser doesnt know if she was still on the line when the remark was made,
               but it was certainly going to be something that I would do.248
            In the end, the call sort of ended very abruptly, . . . .249 The DC head of homeland security and emergency management left the call thinking
               that help was not coming, andat least [not] from the National Guard.250 That was Chief Sunds belief, too. [I]f a general says his troops are not coming,
               his troops arent coming, he said.251
            Before the call ended, General Flynn set up a video-conferencing bridge. General Piatt
               explained to the Select Committee that this was meant to get the principals and the
               team together to start making a plan.252 But Major General Walkerunder whom it was actually written . . . would maintain
               control of National Guard forces253said he was not privy to any planning while on the call.
            We were just told to hold, he said.254
            How long did Major General Walker hold?
            Three hours and 19 minutes, he said.255
            Major General Walker told the Select Committee regarding what occurred during this
               time. [W]e all thought, its in a minute, were going to be told to go, in a minute.
               Then 5 minutes, then 10 minutes, then 15 minutes. We kept thinking, any minute now,
               somebody is going to say go, he said.256 And then an hour went by, then more time went by . . . . But we never thought it
               would take that long.257 Col. Matthews confirmed that there were periods on the call when no one was talking.258 At times, there was talk of securing buildings other than the Capitol.259 He called the open channel essentially a general officer chat line.260
            What did Major General Walker think was happening in those 3 hours and 19 minutes?
            Delay.261
            An Absent Commander-in-Chief
            Vice President Mike Pence called several times to check in on the delayed response
               of the Guard. President Trump did not.
            Vice President Pence called Acting Secretary Miller at least two times.262 He was very animated, and he issued very explicit, very direct, unambiguous orders.
               There was no question about that, General Milley said.263 And he said, Get the National Guard down here. Get them down here now, and clear
               the Capitol. You know, and this is the Vice President of the United States. And there
               was other forceful language.264
            Acting Secretary Miller clarified that he did not order me, as hes not in the
               chain of command, but he considered the talk with the Vice President [h]yper professional
               and [v]ery focused, in which the secretary highlighted that District of Columbia
               National Guard . . . was activated, and we were throwing every asset we could marshal
               to support law enforcement.265
            In contrast, according to General Milley, Chief of Staff Meadows called and said,
               We have to kill the narrative that the Vice President is making all the decisions.
               We need to establish the narrative, you know, that the President is still in charge
               and that things are steady or stable, or words to that effect. I immediately interpreted
               that as politics, politics, politics.266
            President Trump himself did not call. As reports of Departments of Defense denials
               and delay were echoing in the media, no high-level Defense officialincluding Secretaries
               Miller267 and McCarthy268received a call from him that day.269 At the time, General Milley thought that was absolutely . . . highly unusual.270
            [Y]oure the Commander in Chief. Youve got an assault going on on the Capitol of
               the United States of America, and theres nothing? No call? Nothing? Zero? he said.271 I grew up in an organization where commanders are responsible and take charge and
               they see situations unfolding and they issue orders and take charge.272
            On January 3rd, at the end of a national security meeting concerning a foreign threat,
               the President asked in passing about January 6th preparations.273 Acting Secretary Miller informed him they would be fulfilling Mayor Bowsers request
               for DC Guard support.274 From then on, if not earlier, the secretary felt like I had all the authorities
               I needed and did not need to discuss anything with the President regarding authorities.275 The conversation lasted all of 30 seconds to a minute.276 Secretary Miller testified that he never received any order at any time from President
               Trump to deploy the National Guard on January 6th. There was no directthere was
               no order from the President, he said.277
            On January 5th, as demonstrators rallied in support of the President, Acting Secretary
               Miller received a call from the commander-in-chief.278 The President asked him if he was watching the events on television.279 The secretary told him he had caught some of the coverage.280
            Unprompted, President Trump then said, Youre going to need 10,000 people the following
               day, as in troops.281 An email sent by Chief of Staff Meadows on January 5th explicitly noted that the
               DC Guard would be on hand to protect pro Trump people.282 The President and his staff appeared to be aware of the likelihood of violence on
               the day the election certification of his loss was slated to transpire. This communication
               from President Trump contemplated that the Guard could support and secure the safety
               of Trump supporters, not protect the Capitol. At that time, Secretary Miller apparently
               had no information on what President Trump planned for January 6th.
            Acting Secretary Miller thought the 10,000 number was astronomicalwe expected 35,000
               protesters . . . [and] even if there were more protesters than expected, [we thought]
               that local law enforcement could handle it283but, again, this was no order from the President, just President Trump banter
               that you all are familiar with.284
            Parallel Plans in the Midst of Crisis
            While the Army and the District engaged in the heated285 2:30 p.m. phone call, Secretary McCarthy was hurrying down the Pentagon hallways
               to Acting Secretary Millers office. General Milley had been summoned there before
               Secretary McCarthy arrived with General McConville in tow,286 running down the hall, and he was actually winded when he showed up . . . 287
            The next half hour was spent in a quick, rapid fire meeting, [with] lots of quick
               questions.288 Secretary McCarthyout of breathsaid he started by saying, Weve got to go. Weve
               got to get somethingweve got to put every capability we can up there.289 The response he received was, They were all kind of, like, Slow down. Whats going
               on? They wanted to get a sense of the situation.290 Secretary McCarthy said it took about 15 to 20 minutes to relay this, laying out
               what I thought we needed to do.291
            By 3:04 p.m., Acting Secretary Miller said he approved deployment of the DC Guard
               to assist law enforcement at the Capitol at that time.292 Acting Secretary Miller did not understand why Major General Walkerif he felt the
               exigency demanded itdid not deploy troops as soon as his 3 p.m. order allowed it.
               Why didnt he launch them? Id love to know, he said.293
            Secretary McCarthy agreed thats where we may have talked past each other in his office, because Secretary McCarthy thought he had the authority as the Secretary of the
               Army to conduct a mission analysis and send troops at his discretion, not that of Major General Walker.294
            Major General Walker himself understood he had to wait for approval from Secretary
               McCarthy to deploy his forces. But as he waited on that video call for hours, he did strongly consider sending them
                  anyway. He turned to his lawyer and said, Hey, you know what? You know, were going to go,
               and Im just going to shoulder the responsibility.295 According to Major General Walker, his lawyer responded, What if you get sued?296 Colonel Mathews, that lawyer, told him not to do that. Just hold on.297 The Guard officials located with Major General Walker at the Armory all say he seriously
               contemplated aloud the possibility of breaking with the chain of command.
            Should we just deploy now and resign tomorrow? was how Lieutenant Nick recalled
               Major General Walker bluntly putting it.298
            I would have done just that, Major General Walker said, but not for those two letters299 from his superiors curtailing Guard redeployment.300
            The man who signed one of the letters, howeverhimself a former member of the DC Guard301now says Major General Walker should have moved forward regardless of whether he
               had proper authorization.
            Ive launched QRF without approval more than once, Acting Secretary Miller said.302 If youre the person on the ground in the Army, and you realize that theres something
               that is unpredictable or unexpected and you have the ability to influence it, the
               culture, the training, the education, the expectation of you, the American people,
               is that you will execute and do what you can, even if it costs you your job.303
            After authorization at 3:04 p.m., Secretary McCarthy said he gave Major General Walker
               a call. He told him to [m]obilize the entire Guard, bring everybody in. . . . And
               I said, you know, move the QRF to the armory and get as many people as you can to
               the armory and configure them in a minimum of riot gear and batons. And then were
               going to do a mission analysis of what we need to do with the police . . . .304 Major General Walker categorically denies that any such call took place.305 In fact, Major General Walker said the two men did not talk at all until much later
               that night.306 Heres the bottom line. The Secretary was unavailable to me, and he never called
               me, Major General Walker said.307
            Beginning around 3:00 p.m., 25 minutes of Secretary McCarthys time was spent reassuring
               members of Congress that the Guard was indeed coming,308 although he had not yet conveyed the order. That was time unspent on facilitating
               their actual coming. In addition to the alleged threat on the 2:30 p.m. call, a media
               tweet had gone out at 2:55 p.m. declaring that the Department of Defense had denied
               requests for Guard support.309
            By 3:45 p.m., Secretary McCarthy was done with his calls andafter picking up some
               things from his officeheaded down to the MPD headquarters to draft a con-op beside
               law enforcement.310 Acting Secretary Miller arrived at 4:10 p.m.311
            While he was waiting, Colonel Hunter decided he would keep the first shift handling
               traffic control out at their posts in case they were needed for re-mission by the
               MPD, relying instead only on the QRF and the second shift at the Armory to respond
               to the Capitol.312 Those servicemembers ended up manning their traffic control posts up to 20 hours
               straight.313 Army leadership never found out that the servicemembers at the traffic control posts
               didnt end up responding to the Capitol that night, incorrectly crediting some of
               the Guards delay that day to their travel time.314
            By 3:50 p.m., the QRF had arrived at the Armory, bringing their own equipment, given
               no new information upon making the extra pit stop there instead of the Capitol.315 They were ready to go, steeped in a lot of nerves.316 The second shift of servicemembers originally missioned for traffic control had been
               told as early as 2:30 p.m. to expect a switch in mission to handling civil disturbance.317 They rushed to gear up and prepare, but it was a lot of hurry up and wait.318 Not long afterward, were all ready. Now were all donned. So go sit on the bleachers
               and wait. . . We were in a tight holding pattern until the time to deploy.319
            At around the same time, at 3:49 p.m., Speaker Pelosi is heard in video footage from
               that day urging Acting Secretary Miller to hurry.
            Just pretend for a moment this was the Pentagon or the White House or some other
               entity that was under siege, she told him over the phone while sheand the rest of
               the Congressional leadershipwere huddled in a secure location.320 Just get them there!321
            When Secretary McCarthy arrived at MPD headquarters, he joined Chief Contee, his Army
               Operations Director Brigadier General Chris LaNeve, and Assistant Chief Carroll by
               phone.322
            In the next 20 minutes, Secretary McCarthy developed a con-op.
            As Secretary McCarthy had decided after the summer, crafting a strategy was his jobI
               was doing it with the Mayor, the police chief, and the deputy director of the FBI,
               my counterparts, and then ultimately wanted to understand what our role would be,
               the conditionsand afterward, we turned to [Major General Walker] to work the tactical
               details for that.323
            But Major General Walker said, If I need you to tell me how to execute a civil disturbance
               mission, he [s]hould relieve me. Should fire me.324
            It wasnt until later, post-January 6th, that Major General Walker said he found out
               that Secretary McCarthy, his boss, had been putting together a con-opwithout him.
               Then later they said they had to put together a plan for me to execute . . . which
               I found kind of disturbing, Major General Walker said.325 Youre coming up with a plan without me being involved in the plan?326
            General McConville agreed that usually[,] the Secretary of Army is not developing
               concepts for the employment, but because of the situation that wasnt done, so the
               secretary had to fill in the gap.327 That, of coursegiven the preparations Colonel Hunter had laid out hours earlierwas
               not true. But Secretary McCarthy did not know that.328
            He said Major General Walker never told him about how Colonel Hunter had prepared
               and that it was his responsibility to tell him.329 I dont talk to troop lead commanders, no, he said.330
            Ultimately, no plan from Army leadersstrategic or tacticalmade it to the troops.
            [I]f they came up with a plan, they never shared it with us, Major General Walker
               said.331 They claim they were putting a plan together. Thats what took so long. I never saw a plan from the Department of Defense or the Department of the Army.332
            Colonel Hunter agreed that [n]o one ever told me, because I already had the plan
               there, and no one ever informed me that there was a different plan or a different
               [con-op].333 He said to the extent a hasty plan was put into action on January 6th, it was his:
               I created the concept of operation.334 He added: The [plan] that was actually used as far as which lot they would come
               into, who would meet them at the lot, and then who would lead them over to the Capitol.
               That was between myself and MPD and Capitol Police.335
            After hours of wait, Major General Walker said, The plan was executed just like we
               said it would be [from the start], get to the Capitol, take direction from the ranking
               police officers there . . . to help restore order.336 Colonel Hunter passed the details of his hasty plan onto Lt. Col. Reinkethe highest
               ranking officer at the rally pointletting him know, Hey, when you pull into this
               lot, they will meet you there. This is who isyou know, youre going with these personnel,
               exactly what Secretary McCarthy had just spent 20 minutes putting together.337
            Although Lt. Col. Reinke said his QRF servicemembers were given rules of engagement
               before arriving at the rally point, he was not told more than report to Capitol Police
               and supplement and assist them.338 
            Captain Tarp, outranked by Lt. Col. Reinke but in charge of the second shift, was
               merely told by Brigadier General Ryan: You need to act like theres a fire now.
               Youre going to [the] Capitol. Those were his directions.339
            After an hour and a half spent in calls, travel, and making plans, Secretary McCarthy
                  was prepared to green light the deployment of the Guard at 4:35 p.m. But miscommunication led to another half-hour delay.
            Secretary McCarthy relayed the go order to Major General Walkerwith his subordinate
               Brigadier General LaNeve serving as the intermediaryin a conversation Major General
               Walker said never happened.
            According to Secretary McCarthy, Brigadier General LaNeve wasnt a junior aide.340 In his role, he can speak, once given the authority, delegated authority to speak
               as the Sec Army . . . 341 He said that the first-star officer was standing next to me,342 and General Piatt said that it was generally not uncommon for him to ask his staff
               to transmit [the] communication from the Secretary to General Walker.343
            For his part, Brigadier General LaNeve denies that he himself conveyed the go order.344 He said he spoke with Major General Walker first at 4:25 p.m. to tell him that his
               forces should, Get on the bus, do not leave.345 On a second call at 4:35 p.m., Brigadier General LaNeve said he overheard Secretary
               McCarthy himself convey the go order to Major General Walker: He said something
               to the effect of Youre approved to provide support.346 Secretary McCarthy, on his part, said he never spoke a word.347
            Brigadier General LaNeve said the secretary then again handed him the phone to convey
               the details of where to go and what officer to meet up with.348 Those two details would be the full extent of the con-op allegedly communicated
               to Major General Walker.349 He even recalled Major General Walker saying, Roger, to acknowledge the plan.350 But, Brigadier General LaNeve said, there was mass confusion in that room, and
               he agreed that [t]here were huge communications problems.351
            Major General Walker said there was no such call, nor any like it.352 He said he remained on the video conference line the whole time with everybody else,
               he said.353 He said he would not have taken an order from Brigadier General LaNeve anyhow. [W]hy
               would I ever take directions from General LaNeve? Anybody? Brigadier General LaNeve,
               one-star, Major General Walker said.354 I mean, hes not a peer, it wouldnt be somebody that would convey that type of
               message to me. . . So my thinking wouldnt have been that he would have been speaking
               on behalf of the Secretary.355
            Although his staff confirms they didnt see him field a call from Secretary McCarthy
               or Brigadier General LaNeve,356 including never seeing him leave their conference room,357 Major General Walkers own note taker appears to have jotted down at 4:37 p.m. the
               following: advised to sent [sic] 150 to establish D st / 1st outer perimeter, General LaNeve, beside what appears to be his phone number.358 That address is the rally point Secretary McCarthy had asked General LaNeve to convey,
               the same one Colonel Hunter and law enforcement had already chosen earlier. Major
               General Walker said, the only way [Lt. Nick] could have got it was listening to the
               VTC, which I was on.359 He further said, I never saw General LaNeve on the [video teleconference] . . .
               I didnt hear General LaNeves voice.360 Lt. Nick said he had it penned at much laterat 5:09 p.m.as the time they received
               the orders to deploy.361
            Major General Walker certainly did not act as if he had been given authority until, fortuitously, General McConvillewho had
               heard about the 4:35 p.m. callwalked by the teleconference screen and was surprised
               to see the commanding general sitting idly at 5:09 p.m.362
            Major General Walker agreed the first time he heard he had the authority was from
               the lips of the general: General McConville came back into the call and said, Hey,
               youre a go.363
            Lt. Col. Reinkes QRF and Captain Tarps second shift got on the bus at 5:10 p.m.364 They left at 5:15 p.m.365 Lt. Col. Reinke said they didnt arrive at the Capitol Police parking lot until 5:55
               p.m.,366 although official timing from the Army and Department of Defense put their arrival
               time at 5:40 p.m. and from the DC Guard at 5:20 p.m.367 At the earliest, the troops arrived in the vicinity of the Capitol grounds at 5:29
               p.m., when Lt. Col. Reinke texted Colonel Hunter: Apparently we pulled into the wrong
               lot, trying to reroute to LOT 16 now.368 He said they sat around for 20 minutes once they arrived, and then were sworn in,
               before relieving an entire line of officers.369 Captain Tarp said they remained idle for 45 minutes waiting for Capitol Police to
               come bus by bus to swear-in the officers. It was a long wait. Frustratingwere sitting
               a mile from where we[re] going.370
            Captain Tarp said, By the time we got there, we were just holding back the people
               who remained past the curfew.371 The height of the riot had passed.
            Colonel Hunter estimated thathad his preparations been approvedthe DC Guard could
               have arrived as early as an hour and a half earlier than they did.
            Within one hour, Id say I couldve had 135. So the [about 40] coming from Joint
               Base Andrews, if they wouldve headed directly to me at the Capitol, and then the
               90 I had on the street and the 4 that wereincluding myself, he said.372 [S]o I arrived at the Capitol at 3:10. So, if I wouldve recalled everyone by 3:30,
               3:40, we couldve beenhad gear on and walking towards the Capitol.373
            He further stated: I would give them another hour. So by 4:40 I shouldve had at
               least 250 coming from the Armory . . . That includes the second shift as well as full-timers.374
            Presented with the plans Colonel Hunter had set in motion and the easy accessibility
               of their equipment, neither of which he had known about at the time, Secretary McCarthy
               conceded you could have shaved minutes,375 and the speed of deployment could have been pushed up, but [i]t depends.376
            When the Guard finally arrived at the Capitol, pretty much all the other fighting,
               per se, had stopped on the Capitol complex, according to Robert Glover, head of the
               MPD Special Operations Division.377 Then-Inspector Glover received the Guard troops when they arrived.378 [T]he bus just kind of showed up. It was my decision at that point, looking at their
               numbers and their capabilities at that moment in time and what was the most pressing
               activityand that was to make the arrests, he said.379 He had them create a secure prisoner cordon where they could stand guard as arrested
               individuals waited transport to jail.380 They were the freshest personnel that we had at that moment in time. And, again,
               they didnt have any significant numbers to really do much else at that moment in
               time either, he said.381 [T]heir orders were basically, support us in whatever we told them to do . . . 382
            Secretary McCarthy said that it was possible that DOD and DC National Guard leaders
               had simply not been coordinating their planning.383 He acknowledged that a lot of things were probably missed. It was tremendously confusing,384 and that makes for a messy response.385
            No one within the Department of Defense, Army, or Guard leveled accusations of an
               intentional delay. I didnt see anybody trying to throw sand in the gearbox and slow
               things down, General Milley said.386
            Major General Walker said the Armys reluctance to approve National Guard assistance
               to the Mayor during the planning for the anticipated January 6th events continued
               through January 6th itself.387 I dont know where the decision paralysis came from, but it was clearly there. The
               decision paralysis, decision avoidance, he said.388
            Conclusion
            Former President Trumps eagerness to engage the U.S. military to play a visible role
               in addressing domestic unrest during the late spring and summer of 2020 does appear
               to have prompted senior military leadership to take precautions, in preparing for
               the joint session, against the possibility that the DC Guard might be ordered to deploy
               for an improper purpose. Those precautions seem to have been prudential as much as
               legal in nature.
            What that entailed in the unprecedented circumstances of the January 6th attack on
               the Capitol is, however, harder to accept: a 3 hour and 19 minute lag-time in making
               a relatively small, but riot-trained and highly capable military unit available to
               conduct one of its statutory support missions.
            While the delay seems unnecessary and unacceptable, it was the byproduct of military
               processes, institutional caution, and a revised deployment approval process. We have
               no evidence that the delay was intentional. Likewise, it appears that none of the
               individuals involved understood what President Trump planned for January 6th, and
               how he would behave during the violence. Imperfect inter-government and intra-military
               communications as the January 6th rally morphed, with President Trumps active encouragement,
               into a full-blown riot at the Capitol also help explain the time it took to deploy
               Guard troops to the Capitol after their assistance there was requested and approved.
               Post-hoc evaluation of real-time communications during an unprecedented and evolving
               crisis and limited tactical intelligence, nevertheless, carries the risk of a precision
               that was unrealistic at the time. It is also clear from testimony provided to the
               Select Committee that DoD and DC National Guard leaders have differing perspectives
               that are not reconcilable regarding the timing of deployment authorization.
            Where the DC Guards deployment on January 6th is concerned, then, the lessons learned
               at this juncture include: careful evaluation on the basis of limited information may
               take time; statutorily constrained intergovernmental requests for assistance and multi-level
               approval processes are complex and may be time-consuming; any visible military presence
               in the domestic setting is circumscribed by law and triggers considerable, constitutionally-driven
               sensitivities; and crisis communications are often imperfect, especially in unforeseen
               and rapidly evolving situations.
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 8.
               2.  DC Code  49-409, (The President of the United States shall be the Commander-in-Chief
                  of the militia of the District of Columbia.), available at https://code.dccouncil.gov/us/dc/council/code/sections/49-409 (The DC National Guard is the organized militia of the District of Columbia. DC
                  Code  49-406, available at https://code.dccouncil.gov/us/dc/council/code/sections/49-406). Subject to that top-level command distinction, the DC National Guard is, when acting
                  in its civil support or militia capacity, comparable to the National Guard of the
                  various States, which act as those States militias. 32 U.S.C. 101(4) (Army National
                  Guard statutorily defined as that part of the organized militia of the several States
                  . . . and the District of Columbia . . .). The Department of Justices Office of Legal Counsel has interpreted the DC Code
                  provisions authorizing the DC National Guards use as a militia in support of DC law
                  enforcement activities as within the exemptions from the Posse Comitatus Acts prohibitions
                  on use of the military for domestic law enforcement (18 U.S.C.  1385 (Whoever, except
                  in cases and under conditions expressly authorized by the Constitution or Act of Congress,
                  willfully uses any part of the Army or the Air Force as a posse comitatus or otherwise
                  to execute the laws shall be fined . . . or imprisoned . . . .)). See Memorandum Opinion, Use of the National Guard to Support Drug Interdiction Efforts
                  in the District of Columbia, 13 Op. O.L.C. 91, 92, 93, 97 (Apr. 4, 1989), available
                  at https://www.justice.gov/olc/opinions-volume (Posse Comitatus Act, 18 U.S.C.  1385, does not prohibit use of DC National Guard
                  as a militia in support of DC Metropolitan Police Department). The President also
                  has authority to mobilize the National Guard, which is a reserve component of the
                  U.S. armed forces, to active duty (10 U.S.C. 12301 et seq.), and may federalize
                  any National Guard unit to assist in addressing insurrection (10 U.S.C. 251-253),
                  invasion, or rebellion and to give effect to Federal law (10 U.S.C. 12406). The President
                  did not exercise those authorities on January 6, 2021. The DC National Guard operated
                  that day as the DC militia, in its civil support and law enforcement assistance capacity
                  under the separate authorities noted above. See also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 8.
               3.  Executive Order 11485, 34 F.R. 15411,  1, (Oct. 1, 1969), available at https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/search?conditions%5Bterm%5D=34+f.r.15411# (The Commanding General of the [DC] National Guard shall report to the Secretary
                  of Defense or to an official of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary
                  . . .). The Secretary of Defense exercises command authority over the military operations,
                  including training, parades and other duty of the DC National Guard while in its
                  non-federalized militia status, through the Commanding General of the DC National
                  Guard. Id.  Executive Order 11485 reserves appointment of the Commanding General of the DC National
                  Guard to the President (i.e., does not delegate that authority to the Secretary of Defense or the Secretarys
                  designee). Id., at  1, 3. That Executive Order also specifies that, [s]ubject to the direction of the President as Commander-in-Chief, the Secretary [of Defense]
                  may order out the [DC] National Guard . . . to aid the civil authorities . . . of the District of Columbia. Id., at  1. Under a longstanding Congressional authorization, the Mayor of the District
                  of Columbia may request that the Commander-in-Chief (now, by the Presidents delegation,
                  the Secretary of Defense), direct the National Guard to assist in suppressing violence
                  to persons or property or force or violence to break and resist the laws, including
                  when tumult, riot or mob is threatened. DC Code 49-103 (Suppression of riots),
                  available at https://code.dccouncil.gov/us/dc/council/code/sections/49-103. See also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 104.
               4.  Memorandum, Secretary of Defense to Secretary of the Army and Secretary of the Air
                  Force, Supervision and Control of the National Guard of the District of Columbia,
                  (Oct. 10, 1969),  3. That memorandum is available as an attachment to the Secretary
                  of Defense Lloyd Austins December 30, 2021 memorandum modifying that 1969 delegation:
                  Effective immediately, the Secretary of Defense is the approval authority for DC
                  Government requests for the DCNG to provide law enforcement support to the District
                  of Columbia if the support is to be provided within 48 hours of the request or if
                  acceding to the request would require the DC National Guard to engage directly in
                  civilian law enforcement activities, including crowd control, traffic control, search,
                  seizure, arrest, or temporary detention. Memorandum, Secretary of Defense for Secretary
                  of the Army, Authority to Approve District of Columbia Government Requests for District
                  of Columbia National Guard Support Assistance, (Dec. 30, 2021), available at https://www.airandspaceforces.com/austin-streamlines-authority-to-deploy-dc-national-guard. See also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 104.
               5.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 10.
               6.  George Floyd was murdered on Monday, May 25, 2020. See Catherine Thorbecke, Derek Chauvin Had His Knee on George Floyds Neck for Nearly 9 Minutes, Complaint
                  Says, ABC News, (May 29, 2020)), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/derek-chauvin-knee-george-floyds-neck-minutes-complaint/story?id=70961042. Over the ensuing days, weeks, and months, Americans demonstrated in cities across
                  the country. See Major Cities Chiefs Association Intelligence Commanders Group, Report
                  on the 2020 Protests &amp; Civil Unrest (Oct. 2020) at p. 8, Fig. 6, https://majorcitieschiefs.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/MCCA-Report-on-the-2020-Protest-and-Civil-Unrest.pdf.
               7.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 5.
               8.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 8.
               9.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 66.
               10.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 66.
               11.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2021), pp. 67-68 ([Trump] was very
                  upset at the news that had come out that he had been taken down to the bunker in the
                  preceding days, you know, when some of the rioting right by the White House was at
                  its worst. He was very upset by this, and, as I recall, he bellowed at everyone sitting
                  in front of him in a semicircle and he waved his finger around the semicircle saying
                  we were losers, we were losers, we were all fucking losers, Barr said. [H]e then
                  raisedyou know, he talked about whether he should invoke the Insurrection Act . . . And,
                  you know, my position was that the Insurrection Act should only be invoked when you
                  really need to invoke it as a last resort, when you dont really have other assets
                  that can deal with civil unrest.).
               12.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 86.
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 20.
               14.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 20.
               15.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), pp. 47-48.
               16.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 47.
               17.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 38.
               18.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 18.
               19.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), pp. 17-18. Brigadier
                  General Robert Kenneth Ryan was the joint task force commander [who] authorized thethe helicopters to fly over the crowd to observe and report, and the Secretary of
                  the Army approved that, Major General Walker said. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of William
                  Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 55. Now, the pilots came a little too close to the civilians
                  on the ground. Id., at 57.
               20.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 27.
               21.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2022), p. 14.
               22.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2022), p. 14.
               23.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 19.
               24.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 18.
               25.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 19.
               26.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 19.
               27.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Esper, (Apr. 1, 2022), pp. 47-48.
               28.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Esper, (Apr. 1, 2022), pp. 47-48.
               29.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Apr. 1, 2022), p. 25.
               30.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 24243.
               31.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), p. 14; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview
                  of Donell Harvin, (Nov. 12, 2021).
               32.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               33.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 24; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Donell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), p. 24.
               34.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00001680 (December
                  31, 2020, Letter from Mayor Bowser to Major General Walker re: DCNG).
               35.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00001679 (December
                  31, 2020, Letter from Dr. Christopher Rodriguez to Major General Walker re: DCNG).
               36.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 20.
               37.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 26.
               38.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 14.
               39.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 38.
               40.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 75.
               41.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 47.
               42.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 44.
               43.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 50.
               44.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 47.
               45.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 49.
               46.  See Chapter 7.
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 79, 85.
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 56.
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 78-79, 80.
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 78-79, 80.
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 6.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 53-54.
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 54.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 75.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 75-76.
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 10.
               57.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 63; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), pp. 32-33.
               58.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 84.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 11.
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 11-12.
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 98.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 97.
               63.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 103.
               64.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 99.
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 57.
               66.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 57.
               67.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 49.
               68.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 27.
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 27.
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Esper, (Apr. 14, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               71.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 12-13, 15.
               72.  U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Reform, Hearing on Unexplained Delays and Unanswered Questions, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (May 12, 2021), Statement of Christopher C. Miller, p. 4.
               73.  U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Reform, Hearing on Unexplained Delays and Unanswered Questions, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (May 12, 2021), Statement of Christopher C. Miller, p. 4.
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 133.
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 73.
               76.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 73.
               77.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 51.
               78.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00005855DoD
                  00005886 (December 18, 2021, email from General James C. McConville to Curtis Kellogg
                  re: HOT MEDIA FOX NEWS &amp; POLITICO MEDIA QUERY: Response to MG (R) Flynns remarks.).
               79.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 51.
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 54-55 (Q: Were you ever
                  told you would be fired if you ever made such a statement again? A: It was implied.
                  It was implied that I was, you know, not to do that again, . . . .).
               81.  Lara Seligman (@laraseligman), Twitter, Dec. 18, 2021 11:27 a.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/laraseligman/status/1339985580785086466.
               82.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 68.
               83.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00003488.
               84.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00003488.
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 73.
               86.  Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel,
                  James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry, and Donald Rumsfeld, All 10 living former
                  defense secretaries: Involving the military in election disputes would cross into
                  dangerous territory, Washington Post, (Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/10-former-defense-secretaries-military-peaceful-transfer-of-power/2021/01/03/2a23d52e-4c4d-11eb-a9f4-0e668b9772ba_story.html.
               87.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 71.
               88.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 71.
               89.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 71.
               90.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 148.
               91.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 84.
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 247.
               93.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00000006 (January
                  4, 2021, Memorandum from the Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller to the Secretary
                  of the Army Ryan McCarthy).
               94.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00000006 (January
                  4, 2021, Memorandum from the Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller to the Secretary
                  of the Army Ryan McCarthy); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan.
                  11, 2022), p. 56.
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 56.
               96.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00000006 (January
                  4, 2021, Memorandum from the Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller to the Secretary
                  of the Army Ryan McCarthy); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production),
                  DoD #2/000633, (January 5, 2021, Colonel John Lubas email to Major General William
                  Walker with the subject, Final Signed Memo to DCNG, at 7:54 a.m. ET).
               97.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lt. Col. David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               98.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 68.
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 68.
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 89.
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 92.
               102.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 93.
               103.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 90.
               104.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 9394.
               105.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 42.
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 50.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 50.
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 133 (Q: It doesnt
                  sound to me, like, really, youre pushing for it when you raised the National Guard
                  with Sergeant At Arms Irving or Stenger? It would have been nice, but not essential
                  for you to be ready. Is that a fair characterization of your personal position on
                  that? A: Yes.).
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 116-17.
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 124.
               111.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001766, CTRL0000001766.0001
                  (Document from January 3, 2021, titled: Special Event Assessment: Joint Session of
                  CongressElectoral College Vote Certification); see also, Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Julie
                  Farnam, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 51-52.
               112.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 125.
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 114.
               114.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 116.
               115.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 119.
               116.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 128.
               117.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 128.
               118.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 9-10.
               119.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 35.
               120.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 10.
               121.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 12.
               122.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 35.
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 10.
               124.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 41.
               125.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 7-8, 45.
               126.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 52-53.
               127.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 131-32.
               128.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 19, 26. 
               129.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 19, 26.
               130.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 19, 26.
               131.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               132.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 26.
               133.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 26.
               134.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Robert Ryan, (Dec. 9, 2022).
               135.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Dec. 9, 2022).
               136.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Dec. 9, 2022).
               137.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 116.
               138.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 117.
               139.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2022), p. 31.
               140.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 23.
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 25, 27-28.
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 130.
               144.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 26.
               145.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 45.
               146.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 107.
               147.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 107.
               148.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 109.
               149.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 29.
               150.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00003050 (January
                  5, 2021, email from John Lubas to William Walker and Earl Matthews re: Final Signed
                  Memo to DCNG).
               151.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               152.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2022), p. 33.
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 49.
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 65.
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 22.
               156.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 26.
               157.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 31.
               158.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 31.
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 31-32.
               160.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 31-32.
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 32.
               162.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 32.
               163.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 34.
               164.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 32.
               165.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 35.
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 34.
               167.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 34.
               168.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 37.
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 34.
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 41.
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 41.
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 41-42.
               173.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 38-39. Text messages show
                  that Lieutenant Colonel Reinke texted Colonel Hunter, Loading buses now. Meeting
                  police escort. Do you have destination. Contact info? at 2:43 PM. See Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Davie Reinke Production), CTRL0000930918 (January 6, 2021, text messages).
               174.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 44-45. (He called his
                  direct supervisor, Brigadier General Robert Ryan: The first conversation with him,
                  I first informed him, hey, sir, this is where I am, this is who Ive talked to, and
                  they both asked for assistance. And I asked for release of the QRF now. And I asked
                  for, basically send all the additional forces, you know, that you have now. And his
                  response to me was, we are working on it. So he said he was going to coordinate with
                  General Dean and Major General Walker, but they were working on it.).
               175.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Dec. 16, 2021). 
               176.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 78.
               177.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 78.
               178.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), pp. 75-76.
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 148.
               180.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 18.
               181.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 7-8, 19.
               182.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 19, 53 ([Q: T]he Speakers
                  office isnt part of that process in terms of requesting the National Guard, correct?
                  A[:] Correct. It would just be on the notification side.).
               183.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Terri McCullough, (Apr. 18, 2022).
               184.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Terri McCullough, (Apr. 18, 2022).
               185.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Terri McCullough, (Apr. 18, 2022).
               186.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Terri McCullough, (Apr. 18, 2022).
               187.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 21.
               188.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 148-50.
               189.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 152.
               190.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 57 (I wasnt speaking,
                  but I was there.).
               191.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 64.
               192.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Timothy Nick, (Dec. 8, 2021). 
               193.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 99.
               194.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 98-99.
               195.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2022), p. 54.
               196.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 99.
               197.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 99; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2022), p. 56 (And he immediately says, Im going
                  to get approval. Get me a plan, is what he tells me).
               198.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 84.
               199.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 99. The Army at first denied
                  that General Flynn was present for the call at all. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 98 (I
                  think there was just confusionI know some people are trying, you know, to make it something else, but I think there
                  was just confusion. There were a whole bunch of meetings going on because, you know,
                  I didnt think he was there, because when I was there, he wasnt there.). General
                  McConville said: And there was no intent to deceive anybody, or theres no conspiracy
                  because of who Charlie Flynns brother is, General Michael Flynn. Id., at 99. General Flynn said he did not speak on the call. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), p. 41 (A
                  [:] I did not speak on that call. Q [:] Did you identify yourself as being on the
                  call? A [:] I did not. Now, if I said anything, if Imy recollection, if I said anything, I may have tugged on General Piatts sleeve and
                  asked and said, Whats going on here? like, Whats the situation? you know. But
                  others, like Colonel Matthews listening in from the National Guard end of the call,
                  said both Generals Piatt and Flynn were the main interlocuters. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021). On Lt. Nicks notes, at 2:35
                  p.m., General Flynns title is written down. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), CTRL0000930917 (January
                  6, 2021, handwritten notes taken by Lt. Timothy Nick). Lt Nick said, I was just trying to jot down who was on the call. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Timothy Nick, (Dec. 8, 2021). General Flynn ultimately said
                  he was there for a short time. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), pp. 40, 42
                  (It wasI was literally therethe total time that Im talking about was about 4 to 5 minutes. I was really around
                  that phone call, rough order of magnitude, for maybe a minute of that; it became
                  clear to me that I was in the wrong place. And so I made the decision to leave because
                  General Piatt had a handle on the situation.).
               200.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), p. 37.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), p. 37.
               202.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), p. 39.
               203.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), pp. 79-80.
               204.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021).
               205.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 83.
               206.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 81.
               207.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 85.
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 70.
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 70.
               210.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Charles Anthony Flynn, (Oct. 28, 2021), p. 40.
               211.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), pp. 81-82.
               212.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 113.
               213.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 115.
               214.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 162.
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 161.
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 160.
               217.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 80.
               218.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 80.
               219.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 65.
               220.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 65.
               221.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 116.
               222.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 116.
               223.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 156-57.
               224.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 156.
               225.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 156.
               226.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 61.
               227.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 59.
               228.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 57.
               229.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 58.
               230.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 99.
               231.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 105.
               232.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 105.
               233.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), pp. 81-82.
               234.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 59.
               235.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 61.
               236.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 59.
               237.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 82.
               238.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 82.
               239.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 82.
               240.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 157.
               241.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 59.
               242.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 63.
               243.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 63.
               244.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 116.
               245.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 116.
               246.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 116-17.
               247.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee, III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 85.
               248.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 59.
               249.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 65.
               250.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 65.
               251.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 160.
               252.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 60.
               253.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 39.
               254.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 118.
               255.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 118.
               256.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 141.
               257.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 141-42.
               258.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021).
               259.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021).
               260.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021).
               261.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 141.
               262.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 83.
               263.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 83.
               264.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 288.
               265.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 125.
               266.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 296.
               267.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 124.
               268.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 143.
               269.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 82 (So at no time
                  did I and I am not aware of anyone in the Pentagon having a conversation with President
                  Trump on the day of the 6th.).
               270.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 285.
               271.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 268.
               272.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 285.
               273.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 95-96.
               274.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 96.
               275.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 96.
               276.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 97-98.
               277.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 100-01.
               278.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 98.
               279.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 98.
               280.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 98.
               281.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 102.
               282.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM000789 (January 5, 2021,
                  emails between Mark Meadows and John Aycoth, Re: DC mayor activates National Guard
                  ahead of pro-Trump demonstrations, The Hill).
               283.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 99-100.
               284.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 99-101. (Q: [D]id
                  you take that as a request for you or an order to you to deploy 10,000 troops? A[:]
                  No, absolutely not. I interpreted it as a bit of presidential banter or President
                  Trump banter that you all are familiar with, and in no way, shape, or form did I interpret
                  that as an order or direction.); (Q[:] So I want to be clear here thatsince then, in February 2021, Mark Meadows said on Fox News that, quote: Even in January,
                  that was a given as many as 10,000 National Guard troops were told to be on the ready
                  by the Secretary of Defense. Is there any accuracy to that statement? A[:] Im notnot from my perspective. I was never given any direction or order or knew of any plans
                  of that nature.); (Q: To be crystal clear, there was no direct order from President
                  Trump to put 10,000 troops to be on the ready for January 6th, correct? A[:] No. Yeah.
                  Thats correct. There was no directthere was no order from the President.).
               285.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 13.
               286.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 78-79.
               287.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 252-53.
               288.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 253.
               289.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 102.
               290.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 102.
               291.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 102.
               292.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 113 (So, at 3 oclock,
                  I gave the order to mobilize the entire District of Columbia National Guard, however,
                  big they are . . . . everybody show up at the [Armory and], . . . move them to the
                  Capitol immediately to support local law enforcement.).
               293.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 122.
               294.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 124. (emphasis added).
               295.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 120.
               296.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 120.
               297.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021).
               298.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Timothy Nick, (Dec. 8, 2021).
               299.  The two letters referenced include Secretary Millers January 4 memorandum setting
                  restrictions on the Guard and a follow-up letter from Secretary McCarthy on January
                  5 expounding on those limitations. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00000006 (January
                  4, 2021, memorandum), DoD Production DoD 00003493 (January 5, 2021 follow-up letter).
               300.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 45.
               301.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 104.
               302.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 122.
               303.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 123.
               304.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 104.
               305.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 47; Earl Matthews, The Harder Right: An Analysis of a Recent DoD Inspector General Investigation and
                  Other Matters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/january-6-clearinghouse-Colonel-Earl-G.-Matthews-An-Analysis-of-a-Recent-DoD-Inspector-General-Investigation-and-Other-Matters-December-1-2021.pdf.
               306.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 55.
               307.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 52.
               308.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 125.
               309.  Aaron C. Davis (@byaaroncdavis), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:55 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/byaaroncdavis/status/1346908166030766080.
               310.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4 2022), p. 109, 127, 129.
               311.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4 2022), p. 130.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 49. (I mentioned that
                  to Chief Carroll. I said, hey, Chief, you know, I may just pull everyone back. And
                  he told me, he said, well, right now I may need your Guardsmen who are on the traffic
                  control points, because all of my officers are here at the Capitol, so I dont have
                  officers out there in the city right now, so I may need to re-mission those guys for
                  other things. Can you just send me the personnel from the Armory here? You know, so
                  it was almost like we were talking about splitting. Well use that 90 to support MPD
                  on anything they needed in the city, but I can still get, you know, another 200, 250
                  from the Armory to come to the Capitol now.). But Assistant Chief Carroll didnt
                  recall such a conversation. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Jeffrey Carroll, (Nov. 18, 2022)
                  (I dont think it happened. It doesnt sound like something that wouldve happened.)
                  Sergeant Major Brooks said it was him who made the recommendation to hold the first
                  shift at their posts. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Michael F. Brooks, (Dec. 13, 2021).
               313.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               314.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Ken Ryan, (Dec. 9, 2021) (Those that were on the TCPs on the
                  6th did not go to the Capitol on the night of the 6th.); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Craig
                  Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 81; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of James Charles McConville, (Nov.
                  4, 2021), pp.88-89 (Well, what I would think was happening during that hour and a
                  half is theyre . . . leaving their check points, the traffic control points, the
                  30 traffic control points so that all of those vehicles, theyre hopping in their
                  cars and theyre driving back in traffic through the [A]rmory and getting set.);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 50 (They were out
                  on traffic control points. They were doing another job. The QRF was across the river.
                  We brought them over to the Armory. But they had to reconfigure, reorganize now to
                  go into a civil disturbance operation.).
               315.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               316.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               317.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               318.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               319.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               320.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               321.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               322.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 109; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 86.
               323.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 129.
               324.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), pp. 121-22.
               325.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 108.
               326.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 108.
               327.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), pp. 91-92.
               328.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 107.
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 123.
               330.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 141.
               331.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 121.
               332.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 122. (emphasis added).
               333.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 67.
               334.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 65, 70.
               335.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 65.
               336.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 121.
               337.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 66.
               338.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               339.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of David Reinke,
                  (Jan. 6, 2022).
               340.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 134.
               341.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 131.
               342.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 131.
               343.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Walter Piatt, (Nov. 3, 2021), p. 15.
               344.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               345.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               346.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               347.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 133.
               348.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               349.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of General
                  James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), p. 91 (General LaNeve provided the link
                  up location and the lead.).
               350.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               351.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Chris LaNeve, (Feb. 25, 2022).
               352.  Earl Matthews, The Harder Right: An Analysis of a Recent DoD Inspector General Investigation and
                  Other Matters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/january-6-clearinghouse-Colonel-Earl-G.-Matthews-An-Analysis-of-a-Recent-DoD-Inspector-General-Investigation-and-Other-Matters-December-1-2021.pdf (MG Walker denies that LaNeve called him at 4:25PM, or that he spoke to LaNeve at anytime between the phone call from Chief Sund at 1:49PM and the eventual DCNG deployment to the Capitol at 5:08PM.).
               353.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 139.
               354.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 60.
               355.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 65-66.
               356.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Earl Matthews, (Dec. 20, 2021) (One reason I know that there
                  is no 4:30 callis that I was sitting next to Gen. Walker).
               357.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Michael F. Brooks, (Dec. 13, 2021).
               358.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), CTRL0000930917 (January
                  6, 2021, handwritten notes taken by Lt. Timothy Nick).
               359.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 60.
               360.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), pp. 60-61.
               361.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Timothy Nick, (Dec. 8, 2021).
               362.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of James Charles McConville, (Nov. 4, 2021), pp. 90-92.
               363.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Walker, (Dec. 13, 2021), p. 140.
               364.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               365.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               366.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               367.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), DoD 00001196 (January
                  8, 2021, Memorandum for Record from Office of the Secretary of Defense re: Timeline
                  for December 31, 2020January 6, 2021), DoD 00001090 (January 7, 2021, Memorandum
                  for Record from the Secretary of the Army re: Timeline For 31 December7 January 2021),
                  00000490 (January 7, 2021, Memorandum for Record from Joint Force Headquarters re: Timeline
                  for Request for Assistance during Civil Unrest on 6 January 2021 and DC National Guard
                  Authorization to Respond).
               368.  Text message from David Reinke to Colonel Hunter on January 6, 2021.
               369.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of David Reinke, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               370.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               371.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Stewart Tarp, (Jan. 6, 2022).
               372.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 50-51.
               373.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 51.
               374.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Craig Hunter, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 53.
               375.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 120.
               376.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 111-12.
               377.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 72.
               378.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 72.
               379.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 72.
               380.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), pp. 67-68.
               381.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 72.
               382.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 73.
               383.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 144.
               384.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 111.
               385.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 130.
               386.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 83.
               387.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p.71.
               388.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of William Walker, (Apr. 21, 2022), p. 72.
