            APPENDIX 1: GOVERNMENT AGENCY PREPARATION FOR AND RESPONSE TO JANUARY 6TH
            Introduction
            The Select Committee investigated the facts relating to law enforcement entities
               preparation for, and response to, the January 6th events at the Capitol, including
               the character of the intelligence prior to the insurrection. This appendix does not
               address the cause of the attack, which resulted from then President Trumps multi-pronged
               effort to overturn the 2020 presidential election. 
            Prior to January 6th, numerous government agencies received intelligence that those
               descending on The Mall for a rally organized by the President were armed and that
               their target may be the Capitol. The intelligence community and law enforcement agencies
               detected the planning for potential violence directed at the joint session of Congress.
            That intelligence included information about specific planning by the Proud Boys and
               Oath Keepers militia group who ultimately led the attack on the Capitol. By contrast,
               the intelligence did not support a conclusion that Antifa or other left-wing groups
               would likely engage in a violent counterdemonstration, or attack President Trumps
               supporters on January 6th. Indeed, intelligence from January 5th indicated that some
               left-wing groups were instructing their members to stay at home and not attend on
               January 6th.1
            As January 6th approached, some of the intelligence about the potential for violence was shared
               within the executive branch, including the Secret Service and the Presidents National
               Security Council. That intelligence should have been sufficient for President Trump,
               or others at the White House, to cancel the Ellipse speech, and for President Trump
               to cancel plans to instruct his supporters to march to the Capitol. Few in law enforcement
               predicted the full extent of the violence at the Capitol, or that the President of
               the United States would incite a mob attack on the Capitol, that he would send them
               to stop the joint session knowing they were armed and dangerous, that he would further
               incite them against his own vice President while the attack was underway, or that
               he would do nothing to stop the assault for hours.         
            Nevertheless, as explained below, and in multiple hearings by the Committee on House
               Administration, there are additional steps that should have been taken to address
               the potential for violence on that day. 
            Discussion
            Intelligence Received by Government Agencies
            On December 19, 2020, President Trump tweeted: Big protest in D.C. on January 6th.
               Be there, will be wild!2 Following President Trumps tweet, an analyst at the National Capital Region Threat
               Intelligence Consortium (NTIC) noticed a tenfold uptick in violent online rhetoric
               targeting Congress and law enforcement.3 The analyst also noticed that violent right-wing groups that had not previously been
               aligned had begun coordinating their efforts.4 These indications reached the head of the D.C. Homeland Security and Emergency Management
               Agency (HSEMA), Christopher Rodriguez, as well as incoming Chief of D.C. Metropolitan
               Police Department (MPD) Robert Contee.5 Chief Contee remembered that the information prompted the DC Police to change the
               way that we were going to deploy for January the 6th.6  
            Following President Trumps be there, will be wild! tweet, Director Rodriguez arranged
               a briefing to provide the DC Mayor Muriel Bowser the latest threat intelligence about
               January 6th, outline the potential for violence, and make operational recommendations,
               including that the Mayor request assistance from the DC National Guard.7 During the briefing, the Mayor was told that there is greater negative sentiment
               motivating conversation than the last two events in November and December of 2020,
               and that others are calling to peacefully storm the Capitol and occupy the building
               to halt the vote.8  
            As early as December 30th, in its intelligence briefing entitled, March for Trump,
               the U.S. Secret Service (USSS) highlighted the Presidents will be wild! tweet alongside
               hashtags #WeAreTheStorm, #1776Rebel, and #OccupyCapitols, and wrote, President Trump
               supporters have proposed a movement to occupy Capitol Hill.9 It added that promoters of the January 6th rally on social media had borrowed the
               Presidents phrase and were marketing the January 6th rally as the WildProtest.10
            Other law enforcement entities were receiving similar indications from both government
               and private entities.  By December 21st, the U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) had learned
               of a surge in viewers of online maps of the Capitol complexs underground tunnels,
               which were attracting increased attention on www.thedonald.win, alongside violent rhetoric supporting the President.11 By the late afternoon of January 5, 2021, Capitol Police Assistant Chief for Intelligence
               Yogananda Pittman urged Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund to convene a brief call
               to discuss a significant uptick in groups wanting to block perimeter access to the
               Capitol tomorrow starting as early as 0600 hours.12 Chief Sund remembered discussing those indications and the preparations Capitol Police
               already had in place, and [that] everybody seemed fine with utilizing the resources
               we had.13 Chief Sund added that, by that time, he had already deployed all the available resources.14
            The Federal Bureau of Intelligence (FBI) and the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys
               Office of Intelligence and Analysis (DHS I&amp;A) were also aware of the increased online
               interest in the Capitol tunnels.  The FBIs special agent in charge of the intelligence
               division at the Washington Field Office, Jennifer Moore, pointed out that there was
               nothing illegal about discussing the tunnels.  Without a very specific discussion
               of violence, it was a matter of ensuring that the appropriate law enforcement partner
               agencies were aware of the uptick, ensuring that the Capitol Police were aware.15 Peoples First Amendment rights, obviously, are protected. We cannot trollcan[t]
               just troll the internet looking for things thats out there, Moore said.16 So it would have to be with such specificity and such planning and such detail that
               we would be able to open a case, immediately seek authority for an undercover, have
               enough probable cause for that undercover off of one tip would be tough.17
            Other agencies were also surfacing indications and receiving tips.  On December 26,
               2020, the Secret Service received a tip about the Proud Boys detailing plans of having
               a large enough group to march into DC armed and will outnumber the police so they
               cant be stopped.18  It stressed, Their plan is to literally kill people . . . .  Please please take
               this tip seriously and investigate further.19 On December 24th, the Secret Service received a compilation of social media posts
               from SITE, a private intelligence group.  One of them urged that protesters march
               into the chambers.20 Another, referring to President Trumps December 19th will be wild! post, wrote
               that Trump cant exactly openly tell you to revolt, so the December 19th post was
               the closest hell ever get.21 Another understood the Presidents tweet to be urging his supporters to come to Washington
               armed.22 Others were to the same effect (there is not enough cops in DC to stop what is coming,23 make sure they know who to fear,24 and waiting for Trump to say the word25). 
            By December 28th, that compilation had reached the newly installed head of the Capitol
               Police intelligence unit, Jack Donohue.26 The same day, a self-styled internet expert who had been tracking online far right
               extremism for years sent an email to the Capitol Police public information inbox
               warning of countless tweets from Trump supporters saying they will be armed, and
               of tweets from people organizing to storm the Capitol on January 6th.27 She added, January 6th will be the day most of these people realize theres no chance
               left for Trump. Theyll be pushed to what they feel is the edge, noting that many
               would be armed and that she was, for the first time, truly worried.28 Other senior Capitol Police officers do not recall seeing that email before the January
               6th attack.29 The next day, Secret Service agents forwarded to Capitol Police warnings that pro-Trump
               demonstrators were being urged to occupy federal building[s], march into the capital
               building [sic] and make them quake in their shoes by our mere presence.30
            In addition, on January 1, 2021, a lieutenant in the intelligence branch of the MPD
               forwarded to the Capitol Police intelligence unit a tiplater forwarded to USCP Deputy
               Chief Sean Gallagherthat he had found a website planning terroristic behavior on
               Jan 6th, during the rally.31 The source included a link to www.thedonald.win site, describing a detailed plan
               on [s]torming the capitol in DC on Jan 6th.32 On January 2, 2021, the FBI saved in its system a social media post stating, This
               is not a rally and its no longer a protest. This is a final stand . . . many are
               ready to die to take back #USA . . . . And dont be surprised if we take the #capital
               building[sic].33 On January 3rd, FBI and Capitol Police received a Parler post that after weds we
               are going to need a new congress, and Jan 6 may actually be their last day in Congress.34
            On January 4th, Jack Donoghue, head of USCPs intelligence unit, and his assistant
               director, Julie Farnam, briefed Capitol Police leadership, including Chief Gallagher
               and Chief Pittman (but not Chief Sund), about the January 3rd Threat Assessment, which
               highlighted that Congress itself was the target of potential violence on January 6th.
               Assistant Director Farnam explicitly warned the group: 
            Supporters see this as the last opportunity to overturn the election. There was disappointment
               and desperation amongst the protestors, and this could be an incentive to become violent,
               because they have nothing left to lose. The targets are not the counter protestors;
               the target is Congress. The protests are heavily publicized. Stop the Steal has a
               propensity for attracting White supremacists, militia groups, groups like the Proud
               Boys. There are multiple social media posts saying that people are going to be coming
               armed, and it's potentially a very dangerous situation.35 
            On January 5, 2021, at 12:19 p.m., the Architect of the Capitol head of security,
               Valerie Hasberry, forwarded an alert to Capitol Police incident command that an individual
               was calling on thousands to go to Washington Jan 6 and help storm the Capital [sic],
               adding we will storm the government buildings, kill cops, kill security guards, kill
               federal employees and agents.36 There is now chatter on Parler about storming the Capitol, Ms. Hasberry wrote to
               her AOC employee working at the USCP.37 Please let me know if there are any updates to credible threats.38 Within an hour, she was advised by her staff that [t]here is no talk about any credible
               threats or storming the Capitol. That same day, representatives from DHS, FBI, HSEMA,
               Secret Service, DC Police, and Capitol Police shared notice of a website, Red State
               Secession, that urged its visitors to post the home and work addresses of Democratic
               Members of Congress and political enemies under the title, Why the Second American
               Revolution Starts Jan 6.39 It asked for their routes to and from the January 6th congressional certification
               because the crowd will be looking for enemies.40
            The FBI was uploading to, and tagging in, its system incoming information from all
               FBI field offices about January 6th under the label, CERTUNREST2021. While the incoming
               information was reviewed on a regular basis by the Washington Field Office, unified
               monitoring of the items in the aggregate didnt begin until January 5th.41 That same day, the FBI captured a January 6th-related threat that warned a Quick
               Reaction Force of Trump supporters was preparing for January 6th in Virginia with
               weapons and prepared to respond to calls for help in the event that protesters
               believed the police were not doing their job, and a Situation Incident Report from
               FBIs Norfolk Field Office warned of a war on January 6th.42 While Capitol Police leadership received neither warning until after the attack,43 Assistant Director Farnam, USCP intelligence unit, warned that Congress would be
               the target on January 6th.  She noted that a sense of desperation and disappointment
               may lead to more of an incentive to become violent. Unlike previous post-election
               protests, Congress itself is the target on the 6th. 44 The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, remembers Deputy
               Secretary of Defense David Norquist expressing a similar view based on the social
               media traffic in early January 2021: Norquist says . . . [t]he greatest threat is
               a direct assault on the Capitol.  Ill never forget it.45 
            Discussion of the Potential for Violence 
            Federal and local agencies agreed that there was a potential for violence on January
               6th. As noted above, the intelligence leading up to January 6th did not support a
               conclusion that Antifa or other left-wing groups would likely engage in a violent
               counter-demonstration, or attack President Trumps supporters on January 6th. In fact,
               none of these groups was involved to any material extent with the attack on the Capitol
               on January 6th.  
            That said, certain witnesses testified that they believed that there would be violence
               with Antifa or similar counter protest groups.  President Trumps National Security
               Advisor, Robert OBrien, said the White House saw a risk of violence from counter-protesters.46 Then Acting DHS Secretary Chad Wolfe said that his main concern [. . .] at the time
               was what we had seen throughout the summer and throughout the fall, which was you
               were going to have groups on either side, and so you were going to have counterprotests.
               And usually where those counterprotests interacted was where you had the violence.47  
            General Milley said the potential for violence was clear to all: Everyone knew. I
               can't imagine anybody in those calls that didn't realize that on the 6th was going
               to be the certification of an intensely contested election, and there were large crowds
               coming into town, and they were coming into protest. And everybody knew there was
               a probability, more than a possibility, a probability of violence.48 He expected street fights when the sun went down, while [Deputy Secretary] Norquist
               said the most dangerous thing was assault on the Capitol.49 Director of DHS Special Operations Christopher Tomney remembered, [T]here was broad
               discussion/acknowledgment that folks were calling for bringing weapons into the city
               on that day, so there was no surprise, there was noyou know, no one disagreed that
               there was going to be the high likelihood that there could be some violence on January
               6.50 
            Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue described the discussion about the
               threat landscape as generally about left-wing, right wing, or Pro-Trump, anti-Trump
               groups coming to the Capitol. It didn't really matter what they called themselves.
               It was a matter of they're upset, they're coming to the Capitol, and there's a potential
               for violence.51 Donoghue added: Everyone knew what everyone else was doing. Everyone knew that there
               was a danger of violence. Everyone knew that the Capitol and other facilities were
               potential targets. And I think we all felt comfortable that we were aware what the
               situation was, and we had the resources in place to address it.52 
            Operationalization of January 6-Related Intelligence
            Preparing for January 6th required coordination among the several local and Federal
               law enforcement agencies that have distinct authorities and jurisdiction over adjacent
               areas in the Washington, DC, area.  These range from the MPD, United States Park Police
               (USPP), and USSS to the USCP. 
            DC Government Preparation 
            December 30, 2020, HSEMA briefing
            Following the DC HSEMAs December 30th intelligence briefing, Mayor Bowser, anticipating
               that President Trumps December 19th will be wild! tweet would have a big effect
               on the number of people coming into the District,53 agreed with HSEMA Director Rodriguez, who thought the intelligence was showing that
               we needed to posture ourselves, we needed to brace ourselves, and we needed additional
               resources in the city particularly the DC National Guard.54 MPD Chief Contee, who attended the December 30th briefing and was seeing similar
               intelligence, concurred with the request for the DC National Guard.55
            In light of the upcoming holiday weekend, HSEMA Director Rodriguez wanted to expedite
               the DC request for National Guard assistance.56 On December 31st, Mayor Bowser requested the assistance of the DC National Guard
               to assist the MPD at traffic points within the city.57 Mayor Bowsers request explicitly limited National Guard assistance to non-law enforcement
               activities so that the MPD could focus on the civil protests and specified that Guard
               troops should not be armed.58Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy approved Mayor Bowsers request.59 By this time, DC HSEMA Director Rodriguez had fully activated HSEMA and coordinated
               with Federal, State and local partners, to deal with consequence management.60 
            On January 4th, Mayor Bowser held a press conference and invited the MPD, USCP, and
               USPP.61 Mayor Bowser announced that she had activated the DC Fire and Emergency Management
               Services (DC FEMS) in preparation of the January 6th event and that the DC National
               Guard would assist MPD at traffic points and with crowd control. Mayor Bowser urged
               DC residents to stay out of downtown on January 5th and 6th, acknowledging the possibility
               of violence. She stated that, while [p]eople are allowed to come into our city to
               participate in First Amendment activities, DC officials would not allow people to
               incite violence, intimidate our residents, or cause destruction in our city.62 
            The next day, Mayor Bowser sent a letter requesting that Federal agencies coordinate
               with the Mayors office and the MPD in their response on January 6th.63 The letter plainly stated that it was intended to ensure coordination among the agencies
               involved. DC HSEMA Director Rodriguez testified that there was a concern, in light
               of the Federal response to the previous summers civil justice protests, that in
               the event that activities on the street escalated, the city could once again become
               . . . militarized and that armed military and Federal law enforcement personnel could
               be brought into the District, perhaps intimidating residents.64 
            DC FEMS Preparation 
            Mayor Bowser also activated DC FEMS (Fire and Emergency Medical Service Department),
               several days before January 6th.65  DC FEMS focused most of its attention on the event at the Ellipse since the permits
               indicated it would be the largest event of the day, with an estimated 5,000 people
               attending. Other DC and Federal agencies believed the number would likely be closer
               to 35,000. This led DC FEMS to establish an area command for the Ellipse, including
               a Mobile Command Unit, six ambulances, four engine companies, and a first aid tent
               staffed by George Washington University medical staff.66
            MPD Preparation
            After the DC HSEMAs December 30th intelligence briefing, MPD Chief Contee ordered
               full deployment of the Department, cancelling previously scheduled days off, fully
               deploying the Civil Disturbance Unit, and contacting police departments in Montgomery
               and Prince Georges Counties in Maryland so that their forces would be pre-staged
               at certain locations. Chief Contee also staged police at the White House and Lafayette
               Park. Chief Contee said that although the MPD are normally not fully deployed for
               civil disturbance for counting votes at the U.S. Capitol,67 obviously, as we got closer from the time of the initial [December 19th Trump] tweet
               leading up, with all of the rhetoric that's out there on social media, you know, people were going
                  to bring guns, were going to do this and that and so forth, that caused us obviously to change
               the way that we were going to deploy for January the 6th.68 Because of the numerous social media posts about guns, MPD also posted signs on the
               National Mall indicating that possession of firearms in Washington, D.C., was illegal
               and would be prosecuted.69
            U.S. Capitol Police Preparation
            On January 3rd, the same day Capitol Polices Intelligence and Interagency Coordination
               Division (IICD) issued a threat assessment indicating that Congress itself is a target,
               Chief Sund called House Sergeant-at-Arms Paul D. Irving to discuss requesting the
               DC National Guard to assist in policing the Capitols perimeter.70 Chief Sund needed approval from the Capitol Police Board, which consisted of Irving,
               Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Michael C. Stenger, and the Architect of the Capitol J. Brett
               Blanton. Chief Sund remembers that Irving responded immediately that he did not like
               the optics and that the intelligence did not support the request.71 Irving, however, remembers Chief Sund calling him to say the DC National Guard had
               offered 125 unarmed National Guardsmen to the USCP and MPD.72 He also remembered that, during a conference call, Chief Sund told Stenger and him
               that the National Guard would be utilized in similar fashion to the assistance provided
               to the DC police, namely, staffing intersections, and for traffic control to free
               up officers, but then could be used for crowd control, although he acknowledged that
               the Capitol campus does not have many intersections in need of staffing.73
            The Capitol Police Board, including Chief Sund, later agreed that a request for the DC National Guard would not be necessary, particularly if the USCP was in an all hands on deck posture.74 Chief Sund agreed with Stenger and Irving that the intelligence did not support a request for
               DC National Guard assistance.75 According to Irving, Chief Sund did not believe the National Guard would add much to the USCP security plan for January
               6th.76 Chief Sund briefed the Capitol Police Board on the USCPs enhanced security plan,
               and all hands on deck postureincluding 1,200-plus officers, added Civil Disturbance
               Units (CDU), an enhanced Containment Emergency Response Team (CERT), and an expanded
               perimeter.77 Chief Sund did not believe, based on the intelligence he had, that it was then necessary
               to cancel officers days off.78 
            USCP leadership did not create a department-wide plan for the January 6th event.79  In retrospect Chief Sund believed there should have been a plan for the joint session
               of Congress inside the Capitol to reflect all the planning and all the coordination
               that goes on inside the Capitol.80 
            Government Agency Preparation  
            Interagency Coordination
            In the appendix on Deployment of the National Guard, we describe certain reasons why
               the deployment of the National Guard was delayed, highlighting the activity of Secretary
               of the Army McCarthy and how he understood an order given by Acting Secretary of Defense
               Christopher Miller. In our interviews with Department of Defense (DoD) officials,
               they testified that they had asked the Department of Justice to serve the role of
               lead Federal agency, meaning to lead the coordination and the response on January
               6th. The Justice Department does not command National Guard units. Department of Defense,
               Department of Justice (DOJ), and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials testified
               from each agencys perspective about the discussions concerning which department would
               serve as a lead Federal agency.  Notably, these discussions occurred at the same time
               President Trump was offering the Acting Attorney General position to Jeffrey Clark,
               replacing then Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen. Had Clark ultimately been appointed,
               and had he been placed in charge of the Federal security response to the violence
               on January 6th, the situation could have been materially worse. 
            January 3rd Coordination Call
            Realizing that there had not yet been a coordination call among the Federal agencies
               engaged in planning for the January 6th events and related contingencies, Acting Secretary
               Miller convened one for January 3rd, because nobody else was doing it.81 In addition to DoD officials including General Milley, DOJ, DHS, Department of the
               Interior (DOI) officials participated.  Acting Secretary Millers objectives were
               to ensure that everyone had the same perception of the threat and then figure out
               how to synchronize, coordinate. He also wanted to make sure that DoD was prepared
               for any additional requests for support.82  
            Director of DHS Special Operations Tomney remembered that participants discussed the
               threat outlook and estimated crowd83 of up to 30,000not large for the District.84 The consensus was that 8,000 to 10,000 police officers would be available on January
               6th, a force regarded as appropriate for up to a million protesters. General Milley
               asked the police participants on the call whether they needed any other assistance
               from the Department of Defense.85 General Milley and Secretary Miller expressed concern about the number of groups
               requesting permits and the attendance of groups like the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers
               who, as Secretary Miller explained, had conducted acts of violence in the past.86 General Milley asked whether requests for permits could be declined, canceled, or
               permits revoked.87 Participants from the Department of the Interior responded that that wasn't an option.88 
            According to Director Tomney, DHS felt confident in the United States Secret Services
               ability to protect the White House and Vice President, the Federal Protective Services
               (FPS) ability to protect potentially affected Federal buildings, as well as the Immigration
               and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protections ability to augment FPS,
               if needed.89  General Milley and the other DoD participants left the call reassured that the law
               enforcement agencies involved were prepared for January 6th.90 
            During the January 3rd call, the DoD also raised the issue of a lead Federal agency.
               General Milley noted the desirability of a law enforcement lead for coordinating the
               interagency planning and response effort, given the potpourri of jurisdictions and
               diversity of agency authorities.91 Secretary Miller testified that he believed he and Acting Attorney General Jeffrey
               Rosen were in agreement that the DOJ should lead interagency coordination for January
               6th,92 although when asked during the call, Rosen did not confirm that the DOJ would play
               that role.93 The question of a lead Federal agency remained an open, unanswered question at
               the end of the January 3rd call.94 The same day, Rosen was attempting to secure a White House meeting with President
               Trump regarding the imminent appointment of Clark in his stead.95
            Deliberation on Agency Roles
            On a January 4th inter-agency call with the same group, Acting Deputy Attorney General
               Donoghue made the DOJs role clear: it would take the lead in certain areas of responsibility, although he stressed that the DOJ was never designated lead Federal
               agency and could not serve in that capacity.96 On the evening of January 4th, the FBI established a Strategic Information Operations
               Center (SIOC) at FBI headquarters, which became operational on January 5th.97 Unlike the previous summers civil protests, DoD did not have a representative at
               the SIOC. All the DoD officials who were interviewed by the Select Committee, however,
               believe that the DOJ agreed to takeand may have been assigned by the White Housethe
               lead coordinating role.98 Director Tomney, however, remembered that the DOJ participants neither agreed to,
               nor explicitly declined, the lead agency role.99  
            During the January 3rd and 4th calls, General Milley, according to Donoghue, noted
               that [t]here should be plenty of police forces available without using Federal military
               troops, so he was adamant that no active-duty troops would be deployed on January
               6th.100 During this call, participants also discussed whether there was a need for a police-based
               quick reaction force and concluded that the size of the MPD and USCP police forces
               made that unnecessary.101 
            According to Donoghue, at the end of the January 4th call, [i]t was clear that everyone
               understood what everyone else's responsibility was, and everyone understood what was
               available to them if they needed more resources to meet their responsibilities.102 The calls had also given local and Federal law enforcement entities the chance to
               voice any issues, concerns, or requests for Department of Defense support if they
               felt that they were incapable of handling at their level. So, institutionally, there
               was agreement on the threat assessment and the plan going forward.103 The DoDs leading role during the January 3rd and 4th calls had, in fact, left Acting
               DHS Secretary Chad Wolf with the impression that DoD was the lead agency, as they
               were coordinating phone calls, they were setting agendas for phone calls, and they
               were calling out different people, okay, what do you need. . . So they were quarterbacking
               the situation and the response.104
            Agency Actions on Permitting 
            Three organizations in the National Capitol Region handle permits for organized activities
               depending on where the planned activity is to occur. The USSS issues permits for the
               Ellipse, while the DC MPD issues permits for the area around the Ellipse. The USCP
               handles permitting for activities on the Capitol campus. All three entities, as well
               as other law enforcement agencies, communicate about applications for permits and
               the expected number of attendees. They are reluctant to deny permits for what appear
               to be First Amendment-protected protests.105 The USCP received, evaluated, and approved six group permit requests for January
               5th and 6th activity on Capitol Grounds.106  
            On December 19th, the day of President Trumps will be wild! tweet, Cindy Chafian,
               spokesperson from the Eighty Percent Coalition, applied to the MPD and USCP for
               a permit to hold a rally.107 On December 29th, Chafian applied to USPP for a permit for a January 5th rally in
               Freedom Plaza.108  The next day, Kylie Kremer filed for a permit for Women for America First to hold
               a rally for up to 5,000 people on the Ellipse.109  On December 31st, the National Park Service (NPS) held two meetings with Chafian
               as well as the MPD and USCP.110 Then, on January 1st, the USSS confirmed that President Trump would attend the January
               6th rally at the Ellipse, prompting USPP to provide additional support for the rally.111
            On January 4th, Women for America First requested that the NPS increase the authorized
               attendance at its rally to 20,000 from the 5,000 in the original application. The
               same day, reacting to the USPP briefing that 5,000 people were expected, Joseph Roth,
               the USSS site lead, commented that he found it funny that this permit says 5,000
               people when they have said 30k repeatedly.112 On January 5th, the NPS issued a permit for 30,000 participants for the Ellipse event.113  At no point was any permit granted for a march from the Ellipse to the Capitol.
               The President planned to announce that march spontaneously.114 
            At the White House, the increased crowd estimate concerned Bobby Peede, Director of
               Presidential Advance, who emailed White House Deputy Chief of Operations Anthony Ornato,
               noting that the USSS was planning on using only 12 magnetometers. Peede added that
               the mag issue is a pretty major problem if the expected crowd shows up. Secret Service
               documents reveal internal discussion of an initial USSS assessment that 17 magnetometers
               would be needed. On January 6th, only 10 magnetometers were initially assigned to
               the Ellipse.115 
            Agency Preparations for January 6th 
            January 5th Congressional Briefing by Chief Sund and Paul Irving
            On January 5th, Chief Sund briefed the Chairperson of the Committee on House Administration
               (CHA), Representative Zoe Lofgren, along with numerous staff, as well as House Sergeant-at-Arms
               Paul Irving. Given CHA's oversight of the Capitol Police, this was an opportunity
               for the chair of the committee to hear from the security professionals on the security
               plan.116 Chair Lofgrens staff director described it as a topline briefing that covered
               various aspects of the security plan, including Chief Sunds direction of all hands
               on deck, his focus on the prospect of counter protesters, as well as Chair Lofgrens
               concern that Members of Congress speaking at the Ellipse that day could incite protesters.117 After the briefing, the CHA staff director specifically asked about the availability
               of the National Guard in case it was needed. Chief Sund said that the Guard could
               be activated with an emergency declaration from the [Capitol Police] board, but they
               are here. They are a phone call away, and if we need them, they are ready to go.118 
            Speaker Pelosi did not receive a similar briefing, but her chief of staff was given
               a readout of Chief Sunds briefing to Chairperson Lofgren. On that basis, as well
               as the assurances Chief Sund provided, the Speakers chief of staff said, So I believed
               and the Speaker believed the security professionals were in charge of the security
               and they were prepared. We were told that there was a plan.119
            Federal Agency Response on January 6th
            Although intelligence was available suggesting potential violence at the Capitol,
               it was not apparent exactly what President Trump would do to provoke the crowd at
               the January 6th Ellipse rally.  Chief Sund, for example, drove into work on January
               6th believing that preparations for the days events were sound and that there was
               no extraordinary risk or threat.  You know, on my way in, I called Inspector Glover
               with MPD just to get a read. He said he was actually parked over by the Ellipse. Asked
               him, Hey, how are things going over there? He said, there's big crowds, lots of people
               in line, but right now he wasn't seeing any concern with the folks that we had. So
               that was my initial take, Sund told the Select Committee.120
            Throughout the morning, Robert Engel, the special agent in charge of the Presidents
               Secret Service detail, received updates from the event at the Ellipse. At 10:35 a.m.,
               an update informed Engel that 20,000 attendees had been processed and outside of the
               magnetometers, but that there were several thousand on the mall watching but not
               in line.121 An hour later, Engel forwarded an update to White House Deputy Chief of Operations
               Ornato, informing him that 30,000 attendees had been processed.122
            Acting Attorney General Rosen met with FBI leadership for a briefing that morning.123 He remembered this briefing, unlike previous ones, as more of a situational update,
               adding that the DOJ was going to hope for the best, prepare for the worst.124 At 10:43 a.m., Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue received an email from Matt
               Blue, Acting Chief of the Counterterrorism Section, stating [t]here are no credible
               threats as of the 10:00 brief.125 Twelve minutes later, Rosen spoke to White House Counsel Pat Cipollone via phone.126 Acting Attorney General Rosen admits that in hindsight no one at the Department
               contemplated how bad that afternoon turned out to be.127 Nobody in the DOJ leadership could have predicted President Trumps actions that
               day. 
            The Presidents speech at the Ellipse began just before noon. David Torres,128 head of the USSSs Protective Intelligence Division (PID), insisted that the Secret
               Service was not listening to the Presidents speech, however PID agents monitored
               the speech throughout.129 At 12:20 p.m., Faron Paramore, assistant director of Strategic Intel &amp; Information
               (SII), sent an email to USSS leadership that POTUS just said that he is going up
               to the U.S. Capitol to watch the vote and asked whether this is true. Secret Service
               executive Kimberly Cheatle responded [h]e said it, but not going, to our knowledge.130 Minutes later, the USSS PIOC warned that Mogul just mentioned in his speech that
               he would accompany the protesters to the Capitol, with a note that DAD Torres requested
               this be sent for awareness.131 At 1:14 p.m., the USSS Joint Operations Center (JOC) sent an email designating a
               response team to accompany the President in his march to the Capitol, per [his] announcement
               at the Ellipse. The JOC notes: Multiple reports of armed individuals with various
               weapons and malicious intent. Be on your guard.132
            At 12:24 p.m., while the President was speaking, the Vice President, with his USSS
               detail, departed the Vice Presidents Residence for the Capitol.133 After being routed to the Senate side due to the protests, the Vice Presidents detail
               arrived at the Capitol at 12:38 p.m. and was inside the Senate Chamber at 12:54 p.m.134 
            Around 1 p.m., Chief Contee notified Mayor Bowser about the discovery of a pipe bomb
               at the Republican National Committee and of the Capitol perimeter breach.135  Within minutes, Mayor Bowser was at the Joint Operations Center with Chief Contee.136 They tried to contact Chief Sund and sent command officials to Capitol Police headquarters.137 At approximately 12:59 p.m., once the violence had begun, Chief Sund first called
               Deputy Chief Jeff Carroll of the MPD, which provided almost immediate reinforcements.138  Approximately 10 minutes later, MPD officers arrived at the West Front balcony to
               assist the USCP officers. Chief Sunds next call was to the House and Senate Sergeants-at-Arms
               to request National Guard resources.139
            As the violence at the Capitol escalated, DC FEMS realized that they were facing an
               expanding incident with the potential for mass casualties, fires, active shooter,
               and hazardous materials incidents that would exceed the resources at hand.140 As violence escalated at the West Front, non-lethal grenadiers began launching chemical
               munitions at the crowd.141 Around the same time, the USCP discovered a nearby truck containing firearms and
               Molotov cocktails,142 as well as a second explosive device at the Democratic National Headquarters at 1:07
               p.m., while Vice President-elect Kamala Harris was inside. Responding to these incidents
               required a commitment of significant USCP resources for mitigation and to evacuate
               nearby buildings, preventing their deployment to the Capitol to help secure the building.
               
            Chief Gallagher recalled that it started to really unfold into an investigativeheavy
               on the investigation of let's pull up the cameras. Let's try to get an image of the
               pipe bombs. Let's get the images to our law enforcement partners. Let's try to play
               back the cameras and see if we can identify anybody that placed these pipe bombs.
               Let's get the owner of the vehicle, run the vehicle information for that suspicious
               vehicle. So we were coordinating all of that type of response that was from our Investigations
               Division . . . .We also had our IICD team trying to run down as much information,
               working with our Investigations Division as they could, on the suspicious vehicle,
               the tags of the vehicle, stuff of that nature.143 Not including those in the command center, the incidents would require the response
               of 34 USCP personnel, with additional assistance provided by the FBI and ATF. USCPs
               senior leadership at the Command Center and in the intelligence division also divided
               their time between the escalating threat to their officers at the Capitol and the
               explosive devices elsewhere on campus. 
            The next update to the DOJ was at 1:17 p.m., after President Trump had finished speaking
               at the Ellipse. After several attempts, Acting Attorney General Rosen got in touch
               with Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Michael Sherwin, who was at
               the Ellipse. Rosen admits he was not very concerned with the situation at the time,
               because [i]t was early, but at least the initial report was: Crowd size doesn't appear
               to be unexpected, and the conduct so far is okay.144 He had only watched the end of the Presidents speech.145  It was early afternoon before the DOJs senior leadership began to realize the extent
               of what was occurring. Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue remembered hearing
               protesters outside the Department of Justice marching down Constitution, going from
               the Ellipse toward the Capitol in the late morning, early afternoon, but wasnt specifically
               monitoring the protests as there were a million things going on.146 
            At the same time, the President was pressing his request to go to the Capitol. According
               to Robert Engel, the head of his Secret Service detail, President Trump asked to go
               to the Capitol once they had gotten into the Presidential SUV.147 Engel denied the Presidents request and returned to the White House.148 The Committee has significant evidence regarding this period of time.149
            President Trump, nevertheless, persisted in his request to go to the Capitol. A 1:35
               p.m. entry in the USSS Civil Disturbance Units time log shows that the plan was to
               hold at the White House for the next 2 hours and then move the President to the Capitol.150 Soon after, Engel emailed USSS leadership from the West Wing to say they were discussing
               options and setting expectations.151 Minutes later, after receiving an email from USSS leadership saying that it would
               not be advisable for the President to go anywhere near the Capitol, Engel responded,
               [w]e are not doing an OTR to Punch Bowl.152 
            Mayor Bowser also spoke directly with Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy who informed her
               that they had not gotten a request for National Guard assistance from the USCP. Mayor
               Bowser informed Secretary McCarthy that she did not have the authority to re-direct
               the 340 DC National Guard troops at traffic points across the city, but that she had
               already deployed the DC MPD and FEMs to the Capitol. Because she and Chief Sund had
               not connected, Mayor Bowser concluded that the security of the Capitol was now our
               responsibility and requested National Guard assistance.  At the end of this call,
               Mayor Bowser believed that Secretary McCarthy was running [her request] up his chain
               of command.153 
            USCP Chief Sund was concerned when the explosive device was discovered near RNC Headquarters
               but did not then believe there was a need to change the USCPs operational posture.
               Minutes later, when a large group of rioters approached the outer west perimeter of
               the Capitol, Chief Sund raised the alarm and began to reposition his officers: When
               we looked up, and I saw them approaching the officers that were standing, you know,
               right there on the barrier, I looked over to Chief Thomas and I said, Chad, where's
               ourwhere's CDU? Get CDU down there now.154 
            The USCP timeline shows that at 12:55 p.m. all available officers were directed to
               the West Front of the Capitol.  Then, at approximately 1:25 p.m., FBI Deputy Director
               David Bowdich received a report about the pipe bombs at the RNC and DNC.155 Bowdich testified that the FBI considered the possibility that the DNC and RNC bombs
               were possible distractions.156 At 1:28 p.m., USCP requested the AOC deliver 400 additional bike racks to the East
               Front to serve as protective barriers, even though rioters were using bike racks as
               weapons. The pipe bomb discovery at the DNC prevented the AOC from delivering them.157 
            Chief Gallagher was surprised that the violence had escalated so fast. The amount
               of violence that immediately took place when that crowd of 30,000, 35,000, whatever
               the number that was estimated to come was, that did catch, I think, caught Capitol
               Police and all of our partners a little off guard with how violent they were and how
               quick they were.158 At 1:49 p.m., DC MPD Commander Glover declared a riot on the West Front of the Capitol.
               Cruiser 50, were going to give riot warnings. Were going to give riot warnings.
               Going to try to get compliance, but this is now effectively a riot, Commander Glover
               yelled into his radio. 1349 hours. Declaring it a riot, the dispatcher responded,
               which allowed a change in the type of equipment the MPD could use in responding to
               the violence.159
            While the violence continued to escalate at the Capitol, the USCP leadership focused
               on three things: (1) requesting support from local and Federal law enforcement agencies
               nearby; (2) planning for and coordinating with arriving reinforcements; and (3) protecting
               congressional leadership and other Members of Congress.  Chief Sund was still making
               other calls to other agencies for supportATF, FBI, you name it, Secret Service.160 
            Yogananda Pittman, Gallaghers direct supervisor, told the Select Committee that she
               took roles that day beyond her responsibility as Assistant Chief of Police for Protective
               and Intelligence Operations. So we startedso I started to take Protective Services
               Bureau resources, as well as the chief's staff, to set up operations adjacent to headquarters
               building, specifically lot 16, so that we could have a check-in procedure for those
               units so they could stage vehicles, Pittman said.161 Because like we know now, there were breaches on both sides of the buildings and
               these folks are inside of the Capitol. So you have to deploy them with your officers.
               They don't know the layout of the land. We're telling them to respond to north barricade.
               They don't know the north from the south. 162
            Just after 2 p.m., when the Capitol was breached, Assistant Chief Pittman turned her
               full attention to the protection of congressional leadership.163 Meanwhile, the USCP officers at the West Front were overwhelmed. Commander Glover
               praised the actions of his fellow law enforcement officers that day but also noted
               a lack of leadership.164 He observed that the USCP officers he encountered when walking toward the Capitols
               West Front seemed to be very hectic and scattered, with no clear direction, . . .
               fighting for every inch on the line, capable, but without a whole lot of command
               and control.165
            When it became clear to him that securing the Capitol would require additional resources,
               Chief Sund requested the assistance of the DC National Guard.166 During a 2:30 p.m. call set up by HSEMA Director Rodriguez, the USCP specified the
               support they needed from the Guard.167 Mayor Bowser also made two urgent requests of the President that she communicated
               to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.168 One was for the National Guards assistance.169  The other was that the President make a statement asking people to leave, to leave
               the building and to get out of the city, to stop.170 At 2:56 p.m., Meadows told Mayor Bowser that the President had approved the request
               and was going to make a statement.171 
            At the Justice Department, it had become clear by early afternoon that the situation
               was rapidly deteriorating. Donoghue first became aware of the Capitol breach when
               he walked into Rosens office and saw on television that the rioters were in the Rotunda.172 Rosen turned to him and said, [D]o you see this, do you see what's going on, can
               you believe this?173  
            At 2:14 p.m., the Vice Presidents detail had alerted Secret Service over their radio
               channel that the Capitol Building had been breached and that they were holding the
               Vice President in his Senate office.174 About 5 minutes later, the detail reported that the rioters had gained access to
               the second floor and that they would need to relocate the Vice President,175 despite the Vice Presidents objection.176 Five to 7 minutes later, after confirming that the route was safe, the lead agent
               on the Vice Presidents Secret Service detail reasserted the need for the Vice President
               to leave his Senate office.177 (At 2:24 p.m. President Trump tweeted, Mike Pence didnt have the courage to do
               what should have been done.) At 2:25 p.m., the Vice President and his detail left
               for a secure location.178 Vice President Pence refused to leave the Capitol for his residence and remained
               in the secure Capitol location until the Senate and House floors were cleared around
               7 that evening.179
            At 2:29 p.m., DC MPD Commander Glover transmitted an emergency radio message: Cruiser
               50. We lost the line. We've lost the line. All MPD, pull back. All MPD, pull back
               up to the upper deck ASAP. All MPD, pull back to the upper deck ASAP. All MPD, come
               back to the upper deck. Upper deck. Cruiser 50. We've been flanked. 10-33. I repeat,
               10-33 West Front of the Capitol. We have been flanked, and we've lost the line.180 Commander Glover later told the Select Committee that a 10-33 indicates an immediate
               need for emergency assistance for any officer, life or death at that moment in time.
               That's when that line on the north side finally just broke and we just lost it, and
               we kind of got overrun behind us . . . [W]hen you hear that in general daily activity,
               it's like the radio stops and you're focused on getting to that officer, wherever
               they are, because you know it's that bad, that they're fighting for their life; something
               they're perceiving or seeing or realizing is that their life is in immediate danger.181
            Donoghue left Rosens office to go to the FBIs Strategic Information and Operations
               Center (SIOC) across the street at the FBIs Hoover Building.182 Before he left, Donoghue remembers someone at SIOC telling him Capitol Police say
               they don't need help at this point, they've got it covered.183 When Donoghue arrived at the Washington Field Office, he found FBI Deputy Director
               Bowdich in a conference room by himself on the phone with a senior FBI official.184 After a brief discussion, Donoghue and Bowdich agreed that they should both go to
               the Capitol to evaluate the situation firsthand.185 Donoghue remembered that they arrived at the assembly area on D Street.186 Donoghue called Rosen to say that he and Bowdich were going to the Capitol.187 
            Around this time, Bowdich says that he received a call from Senator Mark Warner, who
               said [t]his is a mess, and we now have the vast majority of the Senate in one room.188 Bowdich recalls the number being about 87 senators,189 and that he directed the FBIs Baltimore team to protect that room, recognizing
               you have almost the entire Senate in one room.190 Bowdich also directed a SWAT team to Senator Mitch McConnells office, in response
               to a call from McConnells staff informing him that rioters were kicking in their
               door. On arriving, the SWAT team found that McConnells staff had reached safety.191
            At 3:25 p.m., Rosen spoke to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer about
               the ongoing crisis. A video of the call shows Senator Schumer imploring Rosen, get
               the President to tell them to leave the Capitol, Mr. Attorney General, in your law
               enforcement responsibility. A public statement that they should all leave. 192 
            As the days crisis unfolded, Mayor Bowser activated the DC mutual assistance compact
               with neighboring jurisdictions for law assistance support and spoke to the Governors
               of Maryland and Virginia to solicit additional National Guard support.  At about 3:30
               p.m., Mayor Bowser spoke to congressional leadership, including Speaker Pelosi and
               House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer.193 Then, around 4 p.m., Mayor Bowser, MPD Chief Contee and Army Secretary McCarthy met
               in the Joint Operations Center at MPD headquarters.194 At 4:30 p.m., Mayor Bowser held a press conference with DC HSEMA Director Rodriguez
               as well as Secretary McCarthy.195  Mayor Bowser also declared a 6 p.m. curfew for the District.196  
            Vice President Pence, who remained inside the Capitol, called Acting Attorney General
               Rosen at 4:34 p.m. to ask what the DOJ was doing and what more the Department could
               do to help.197 Vice President Pence told Rosen that the situation at the Capitol seemed then to
               be improving.198 The head of his USSS security detail recalls overhearing the Vice President asking
               USCP Chief Sund, over the phone, whether it would be possible to go back to finish
               the business of the government this evening.199 At 4:42 p.m., the head of the Vice Presidents detail emailed the USSS Office of
               Protective Operations that the Vice President was confirming with Chief Sund that
               it would take days to sweep and reopen the Capitol.200 
            Congressional leadership continued to push to return to the Capitol to continue certifying
               the electoral votes.  Senior DOJ and FBI officialsincluding Rosen, Bowdich, and Donoghueheld
               two conference calls. Donoghue remembered that the first, at 6 p.m., was a law enforcement-level
               call with General Daniel R. Hokansen, chief of the National Guard Bureau, and focused
               on the role of the DC National Guard.201 The second call, at approximately 7 p.m., included Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell,
               Leader Schumer, the Vice President, the Secretary of Defense, and General Milley,
               as well as other congressional leaders.202 During that call, FBI and other law enforcement officials on the ground provided
               an updated timeline for clearing the Capitol to hopefully get in an hour later.203
            At 8:05 p.m., the U.S. Capitol Police announced that the Capitol Building was clear
               and that Congress could resume counting electoral votes.204 Shortly after Members returned, Donoghue left the Capitol.205
            DC FEMS statistics help describe the scope of the January 6th riot at the Capitol.
               Over the course of the day, DC FEMS reported 22 EMS responses, 14 EMS transports,
               including two cardiac arrests and two critical injury transports. There were an estimated
               250 injured law enforcement officers from numerous agencies.206 One hundred-fourteen USCP officers reported injuries.207 Five police officers who were at the Capitol on January 6th died in the days following
               the riot.
            Federal and local law enforcement authorities were in possession of multiple streams
               of intelligence predicting violence directed at the Capitol prior to January 6th.
               Although some of that intelligence was fragmentary, it should have been sufficient
               to warrant far more vigorous preparations for the security of the joint session. The
               failure to sufficiently share and act upon that intelligence jeopardized the lives
               of the police officers defending the Capitol and everyone in it.
            While the danger to the Capitol posed by an armed and angry crowd was foreseeable,
               the fact that the President of the United States would be the catalyst of their fury
               and facilitate the attack was unprecedented in American history. If we lacked the
               imagination to suppose that a President would incite an attack on his own Government,
               urging his supporters to fight like hell, we lack that insight no more. And the
               best defense against that danger will not come from law enforcement, but from an informed
               and active citizenry. 
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000091086 (United States Secret Service Protective Intelligence Division communication
                  noting left-wing groups telling members to stay at home on January 6th).
               2.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 1:42 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Be+there+will+be+wild%22. 
               3.   See Select Committee Interview of Donell Harvin on January 24, 2022 at p. 14:912 (Harvin
                  Interview (January 24, 2022)); see also Select Committee Informal Interview of Donell Harvin on November 12, 2021.
               4.   See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), p. 12; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview
                  of Donell Harvin, (Nov. 12, 2021). 
               5. 4 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III,
                  (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 22; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Donell Harvin, (Jan.
                  24, 2022), p. 22; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Dr. Christopher Rodriguez,
                  (Jan. 25, 2022), p.16.
               6.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 22.
               7.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 20.
               8.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 44.
               9.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000101135.0001 (December
                  30, 2020, Protective Intelligence Brief titled March for Trump).
               10.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001473 (December
                  29, 2020, email from PIOC-ONDUTY to THREAT ASSESSMENT re: FW: [EXTERNAL EMAIL] - Neo-Nazi
                  Calls on D.C. Pro-Trump Protesters to Occupy Federal Building).
               11.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000436, CTRL0000000436.0001,
                  CTRL0000000436.0002, CTRL0000000436.0003. CTRL0000000436.0004, CTRL0000000436.0005
                  (December 21, 2020, email re: Part II: FYSA - thread in OSINT research, attaching
                  Donald.Win screenshots). 
               12.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000091, CTRL0000000091,0001,
                  CTRL0000000091,0002, CTRL0000000091,0003, CTRL0000000091,0004, CTRL0000000091,0005,
                  CTRL0000000091,0006, CTRL0000000091,0007, CTRL0000000091,0008, CTRL0000000091,0009
                  (January 5, 2021, Yogananda Pittman email to Steven Sund at 4:55 p.m. re: FW: Interest
                  in Tunnels Leading to the US Capitol , attaching screenshots of theDonald.win posts).
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 6061.
               14.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 6061.
               15.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jennifer Moore, (July 26, 2022), pp. 55, 57, 62. 
               16.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jennifer Moore, (July 26, 2022), p. 95. 
               17.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jennifer Moore, (July 26, 2022), p. 24.
               18.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000236995 (December
                  26, 2021, email to PIOC, PIOC-ONDUTY re: (U//FOUO) Disruptions to DC Metro Area 01/06/2021
                  (Online Tip)).
               19.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000236995 (December
                  26, 2021, email to PIOC, PIOC-ONDUTY re: (U//FOUO) Disruptions to DC Metro Area 01/06/2021
                  (Online Tip)).
               20.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               21.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               22.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               24.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               25.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               26.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001509 (December
                  25, 2020, email to John Donohue re: Fwd: Armed and Ready, Mr. President: Demonstrators
                  Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 Stop the Steal Protest in
                  DC, with attachments).
               27.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000087 (December
                  28, 2020, email re: 1/6 warning.).
               28.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000087 (December
                  28, 2020, email re: 1/6 warning.). 
               29.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of John K. Donohue, (Jan. 31, 2022), p. 54; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Yogananda Pittman, (Jan. 13, 2022), p. 47; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Julie Farnam,
                  (Dec. 15, 2021), p. 42; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Sean Gallagher (Jan. 11, 2022),
                  pp. 37, 57. 
               30.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001473 (December
                  29, 2020, email from PIOC-ONDUTY to THREAT ASSESSMENT re: FW: [EXTERNAL EMAIL] - Neo-Nazi
                  Calls on D.C. Pro-Trump Protesters to Occupy Federal Building.)
               31.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001527 (Email from
                  Shane Lamond to Julie Farnam re: Fwd: MPD MMS Text Tip.).
               32.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001527 (Email from
                  Shane Lamond to Julie Farnam re: Fwd: MPD MMS Text Tip.).
               33.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (FBI Production, Jan. 31, 2022). This document is not
                  being released due to national security concerns. 
               34.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Parler Production), PARLER_00000011 - PARLER_00000013
                  (January 2, 2021 email from Parler to FBI re: Another to check out).
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Farnam, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 3336. 
               36.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Architect of the Capitol Production), CTRL0000000002,
                  p. 2 (January 5, 2021, email from AOC Command Center re: Individual says go to Washington
                  Jan 6 and help storm the Capital adds we will storm the government buildings, kill
                  cops, kill security guards, kill federal employees and agents: Blog via 8kun).
               37.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Architect of the Capitol Production), CTRL0000000002,
                  p. 2 (January 5, 2021, email from AOC Command Center re: Individual says go to Washington
                  Jan 6 and help storm the Capital adds we will storm the government buildings, kill
                  cops, kill security guards, kill federal employees and agents: Blog via 8kun).
               38.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Architect of the Capitol Production), CTRL0000000002,
                  p. 2 (January 5, 2021, email from AOC Command Center re: Individual says go to Washington
                  Jan 6 and help storm the Capital adds we will storm the government buildings, kill
                  cops, kill security guards, kill federal employees and agents: Blog via 8kun).
               39.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000083 (January
                  5, 2021, email re: (U//FOUO//LES) OSINT Post of Concern). 
               40.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000083 (January
                  5, 2021, email re: (U//FOUO//LES) OSINT Post of Concern).
               41.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Briefing by Steve Jensen, (Nov. 18, 2021).  In an email sent by the FBI to
                  the Select Committee on November 8, 2021, the FBI stated that on December 27, the
                  FBI created a system to collect threats related to the election certification on
                  January 6 by using a tag, CERTUNREST. Despite making multiple requests for the number
                  of guardians that were tagged prior to January 6, the FBI did not provide a precise
                  number. The FBI identified several dozen guardians opened in advance of January 6th that included
                  a reference to January 6, Washington D.C., and either the U.S. Capitol or a specific
                  threat of violence.
               42.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (FBI Production), CTRL0000930224 p. 23, (noting Communication
                  and Establishment of a Quick Reaction Force by USPERs Related to an Identified Protest
                  in Washington, District of Columbia, on 6 January 2021). 
               43.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Yogananda Pittman, (Nov. 12, 2021).
               44.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001766, CTRL0000001766.0001
                  (Document from January 3, 2021, titled: Special Event Assessment: Joint Session of
                  CongressElectoral College Vote Certification); see also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Farnam, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp 5152. 
               45.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 236.
               46.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert O'Brien, (Aug. 23, 2022), p. 19.
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), p. 31.
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 235.
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 236.
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Tomney, (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 40.
               51.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2022), pp. 16970.
               52.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2022), pp. 16970.
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 45.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 18.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 26.
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 24.
               57.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), CTRL0000007104 (December 31, 2020, letter from Mayor Bowser to General William Walker).
               58.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 30.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ryan McCarthy, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 78-79.
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 63.
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 50. 
               62.  See DC Mayors Office, Mayor Bowers Provides Situational Update, 1/4/21, YouTube, Jan.
                  4, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbZ07wdnQ-s; Julie Zauzmer Weil, Marissa J. Lang, and Dan Lamothe, National Guard Activated
                  for D.C. Protests, with More Restraints than in June, Officials Say, Washington Post, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-national-guard-protests-bowser/2021/01/04/220ced16-4e8d-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               63.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 2728.
               64.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Dr. Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 28.
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Dr. Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p.66.
               66.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia production), CTRL0000930981 (Memo:
                  Final January 6th After Action Quick Look Report, Government of the District of Columbia
                  Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department. May 19, 2022).
               67.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 14.
               68.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 15 (emphasis added).
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert J. Contee III, (Jan. 11, 2022), pp. 1415.
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 114.  
               71.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 116.
               72.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 9. 2123.
               73.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 116.
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p. 10.
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p.125.
               76.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), p.12.
               77.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Paul Irving, (Mar. 4, 2022), pp. 1213. The result was an
                  estimated 923 Capitol Police officers on the Capitol campus at 7 a.m. on January 6
                  (50% of strength), 1,214 officers at 2 p.m. (66%), and a total of 1,457 at some point
                  during the day (79% of a total of 1,840 officers).
               78.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 76.
               79.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 138.
               80.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 138.
               81.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 86. 85 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 87.
               82. 
               83.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 90.
               84.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher J. Tomney, (Apr. 14, 2022), pp. 39, 4344. 
               85.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 237; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), Exhibit 38.
               86.   See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles
                  Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 8283; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov.
                  17, 2021), pp. 194, 281.
               87.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 81-82; See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 23637.
               88.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 8182.
               89.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher J. Tomney, (Apr. 14, 2022), pp. 39, 4344. 
               90.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 90.
               91.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 20204.
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 88.
               93.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 206.
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher J. Tomney, (Apr. 14, 2022), pp. 41, 4546. 
               95.  See Chapter 4.
               96.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 157, 16567.
               97.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 9798; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Richard Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 162.
               98.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), PRODUCTION 1 - 000017 (On January 3, 2021, during an interagency meeting hosted by the White House, the
                  Department of Justice was designated as the lead Federal agency for the planned First
                  Amendment demonstrations on January 56.). 
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Tomney, (April 14, 2022), p. 45; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Christopher Tomney, (April 14, 2022), p. 46. 
               100.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 168.
               101.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 169.
               102.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 169.
               103.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), p. 83.
               104.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolfe, (Jan 29, 2022), pp. 4849
               105.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Farnam, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 5859.
               106.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Farnam, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 5859.
               107.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of the Interior Production), DOI_46000428_00005162
                  (Dec. 19, 2020, Cindy Chafian email Re: Status of application - Women for America
                  First at 7:12 AM).
               108.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior), DOI_46000114_00000246.
               109.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior), DOI_46000114_00000246.
               110.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Response to questions), DOI_46000114_00000246.
               111.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Response to questions), DOI_46000114_00000246.
               112.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Response to questions), DOI_46000114_00000246.
               113.    Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior), DOI_46000114_00000246. 
               114.  See Executive Summary and Chapter 7.
               115.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000481288 ( January 6, 2021 email at 8:17 AM referencing 2 magnetometers being surged); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000495699 (January 6, 2021, email at 10:46 a.m re: Mags Update referencing 12
                  magnetometers, which means there were 10 earlier in the day). 
               116.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jamie Fleet, (Mar. 10, 2022), p. 24.
               117.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jamie Fleet, (Mar. 10, 2022), pp. 2526, 30.
               118.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jamie Fleet, (Mar. 10, 2022), p. 28.
               119.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Terri McCullough, (Apr. 18, 2022).
               120.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 146.
               121.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service production), CTRL0000481790 (January
                  6, 2021, email to Robert Engel at 10:35 am).
               122.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service production), CTRL0000536285 (January
                  6, 2021, email forwarded by Robert Engel to Anthony Ornato at 11:32 am).
               123.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 168.
               124.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 169.
               125.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000587
                  (January 6, 2021, email to Richard Donoghue at 10:43 am). 
               126.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000621
                  (January 6, 2021, Jeffrey Rosen call list). 
               127.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 169.
               128.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Torres, (Mar. 2, 2020), p. 80.
               129.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000093384 (January
                  6, 2021, message to PID agents at 12:00 p.m.). 
               130.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000152321 (January
                  6, 2021, emails at 12:20 p.m. and 1:34 p.m.).
               131.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000542477 (January
                  6, 2021, internal email at 12:26 p.m.).
               132.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000087742 (January
                  6, 2021, Joint Operations Center (JOC) email designating a response team at 1:14 pm).
               133.   United States Secret Service Radio Tango Channel, Jan. 6, 2021. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency. 
               134.   United States Secret Service Radio Tango Channel, Jan. 6, 2021. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency.
               135.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 67.
               136.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 78.
               137.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 89.
               138.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 147.
               139.  This call, and subsequent coordination for National Guard assistance between various
                  entities is detailed in the National Guard appendix.
               140.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia production), CTRL0000930981 (Memo:
                  Final January 6th After Action Quick Look Report, Government of the District of Columbia
                  Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department. May 19, 2022).
               141.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000056 (noting the
                  event at 1:06 p.m.). 
               142.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000056 (marking
                  the event at 1:03 p.m.).
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sean Gallagher, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 19.
               144.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 171.
               145.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 169.
               146.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 176.
               147.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Robert Engel, (Mar. 4, 2022). 
               148.   For further details of the SUV incident, see Chapter 7.
               149.  See Executive Summary and Chapter 7.
               150.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478.
               151.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000496064.
               152.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000208061.
               153.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 67.
               154.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 147.
               155.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 11112.
               156.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 11112.
               157.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Valerie Hasberry, (Apr. 14, 2022), pp. 5961.
               158.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sean Gallagher, (Jan. 11, 2022), p. 15.
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 8, 9, 2225.
               160.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 155.
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Yogananda Pittman, (Jan. 13, 2022), p. 72.
               162.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Yogananda Pittman, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 7374.
               163.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Yogananda Pittman, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 7374.
               164.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 80.
               165.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 77.
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 154.
               167.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Rodriguez, (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 64.
               168.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 17.
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 17.
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 17.
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 16-17.
               172.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 176.
               173.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 176.
               174.   United States Secret Service Radio Tango Channel, Jan. 6, 2021. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency.
               175.   United States Secret Service Radio Tango Channel, Jan. 6, 2021. Select Committee staff
                  reviewed recordings of this radio frequency.
               176.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Timothy Giebels, (Apr. 8, 2022), p. 54.
               177.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Timothy Giebels, (Apr. 8, 2022), p. 54.
               178.   United States Secret Service Radio Tango Channel, Jan. 6, 2021. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency.
               179.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Timothy Giebels, (Apr. 8, 2022), pp. 7273.
               180.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), CTRL0000070377 (recording
                  of Metropolitan Police Department, Radio Transmission, from 14001500 hours).   
               181.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), pp. 6162.
               182.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 17980.
               183. 171 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 180.
               184.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 18081.
               185.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), p. 111; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Richard Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 181.
               186.  178 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard Donoghue, (Oct.
                  1, 2021), p. 182.
               187.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey A. Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 176.
               188.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 11314.
               189.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), pp. 11314.
               190.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), p. 114.
               191.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), p. 114.
               192.   Video Shows Pelosi Trying to Secure the Capitol, New York Times, (Oct. 13, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000008581029/jan-6-pelosi-video.html.
               193.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 15.
               194.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Defense Production), PRODUCTION 1 - 000017.
               195.  D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser Press Conference on Capitol Protests Transcript January
                  6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at  https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/d-c-mayor-muriel-bowser-press-conference-on-capitol-protests-transcript-january-6.
               196.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 7.
               197.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 182.
               198.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 18283.
               199.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Timothy Giebels, (Apr. 8, 2022), p. 82.
               200.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000512238 (January 6, 2021, email at 4:42 p.m. noting Hoosier going to call
                  chief of Capital [sic] Police).
               201.    Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 190. Donoghue
                  memorialized this call in handwritten notes. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000614
                  (January 6, 2021, handwritten notes by Richard Donoghue, 7:00 p.m.).
               202.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000614
                  (January 6, 2021, handwritten notes by Richard Donoghue, 7:00 pm.). 
               203.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Bowdich, (Dec. 16, 2021), p. 116.
               204.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000614
                  (January 6, 2021, handwritten notes by Richard Donoghue, 7:00 pm.)
               205.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 191.
               206.    Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia production), CTRL0000930981 (Memo:
                  Final January 6th After Action Quick Look Report, Government of the District of Columbia
                  Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department. May 19, 2022).
               207.   United States Government Accountability Office, CAPITOL ATTACK: Additional Actions Needed to Better Prepare Capitol Police Officers
                     for Violent Demonstrations, 117th Cong., 2d sess. (March 2022), available at https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-22-104829.pdf.
