            2
            I JUST WANT TO FIND 11,780 VOTES
            In a now infamous telephone call on January 2, 2021, President Trump pressured Georgia
               Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger for more than an hour. The President confronted
               him with multiple conspiracy theories about the electionnone of which were true.
               Raffensperger and other Georgia officials debunked these allegations, one after another,
               during their call. Under Raffenspergers leadership, Georgia had, by that time, already
               conducted a statewide hand recount of all ballots. That recount and other post-election
               reviews proved that there was no widespread fraud, and that voting machines didnt
               alter the outcome of the election.1 This should have put President Trumps allegations to rest. But, undeterred by the
               facts, the President badgered Raffensperger to overturn the Georgia results.  
            President Trump insisted that the ballots are corrupt and someone was shredding
               them.2 He issued a thinly veiled threat, telling Raffensperger, it is more illegal for
               you than it is for them because you know what they did and youre not reporting it.3 Of course, the Georgia officials werent doing anything illegal, and there was
               nothing to report. Even so, President Trump suggested that both Raffensperger and
               his general counsel, Ryan Germany, could face criminal jeopardy.4 Thats a criminal, thats a criminal offense. And you cant let that happen, the
               President said.5 Thats a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer . . . Im notifying you that youre
               letting it happen.6
            And then the President made his demand. So look. All I want to do is this. I just
               want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have, President Trump told Raffensperger.7 
            It was a stunning moment. The President of the United States was asking a States
               chief election officer to find enough votes to declare him the winner of an election
               he lost.
            Raffensperger saw the Presidents warning to him on January 2nd as a threat. I felt
               thenand I still believe todaythat this was a threat, Raffensperger wrote in his
               book.8 And this threat was multifaceted: first, the President notifying Raffensperger
               and his team of criminal activity could be understood as directing the law-enforcement
               power of the Federal Government against them. While Raffensperger did not know for
               certain whether President Trump was threatening such an investigation, he knew Trump
               had positional power as President and appeared to be promising to make [my] life
               miserable.9  
            But the threat was also of a more insidious kind. As Raffensperger wrote in his book: Others obviously thought [it was a threat], too, because some of Trumps more radical
               followers have responded as if it was their duty to carry out this threat.10 Raffenspergers deputy held a press conference and publicly warned all Americans,
               including President Trump, that President Trumps rhetoric endangered innocent officials
               and private citizens, and fueled death threats against Georgia election workers, sexualized
               threats directed towards Raffenspergers wife, and harassment at the homes of Georgia
               election officials.11 The January 2nd call promised more of the same. The upshot of President Trumps message
               to Raffensperger was: do what I ask, or you will pay.
            President Trumps phone call with Secretary Raffensperger received widespread coverage
               after it was leaked. But Georgia was not the only State targeted by President Trump
               and his allies. The call was one element of a larger and more comprehensive effortmuch
               of it unseen by and unknown to the general publicto overturn the votes cast by millions
               of American citizens across several States.
            As Chapter 1 explained, the root of this effort was the Big Lie: President Trump
               and his allies publicly claiming that the election was rife with fraud that could
               have changed the result, even though the Presidents own advisors, and the Department
               of Justice, told the President time and time again that this was not the case.12 But in parallel with this strategy, President Trump and his allies zeroed in on key
               battleground States the President had lost, leaning on Republican State officials
               to overrule voters, disregard valid vote counts, and deliver the States electoral
               votes to the losing candidate. Had this scheme worked, President Trump could have,
               for the first time in American history, subverted the results of a lawful election
               to stay in power. His was a deeply anti-democratic plan: to co-opt State legislaturesthrough
               appeals to debunked theories of election fraud, or pure partisan politicsto replace
               Biden electors with Trump electors, so President Trump would win the electoral vote
               count in the joint session of Congress on January 6th. 
            Had enough State officials gone along with President Trumps plot, his attempt to
               stay in power might have worked. It is fortunate that a critical mass of honorable
               officials withstood President Trumps pressure to participate in this scheme. They
               and others who stood up to him closed off avenues for thwarting the election so that,
               by noon on January 6th, President Trump was left with one desperate, final gambit
               for holding on to power: sending his armed, angry supporters to the U.S. Capitol.
            2.1 The Electoral College, and President Trumps Attempt to Subvert It
            When Americans vote for a presidential candidate on election day, they are actually
               casting votes for that candidates proposed presidential electors to participate in
               the electoral college. After a State certifies its election results and announces
               a winner, it also issues a certificate of ascertainment, which contains the names
               of the duly chosen electoral college electors. The electors whose names appear as
               having received the most votes on the certificate of ascertainment will go on to participate
               in the electoral college, while a losing candidates proposed electors have no role
               to play and no standing to participate in the electoral college. This happens after
               every Presidential election, in each of the fifty States and the District of Columbia.
               
            This process comes from a clause in the U.S. Constitution that gives States the power
               to choose electoral college electors according to State law.13 That clause says that each State shall appoint electoral college electors in such
               [m]anner as the Legislature thereof may direct. All 50 States have decreed that electors
               will be selected by popular vote. 
            Tuesday, November 3rd, was the day established by Federal law as election day in 2020.
               Each States rules had been setand courts had weighed in when certain rules were
               challenged. Polls opened around the country and votes came in, whether in person or
               via the mail, according to each States laws. 
            Over 154 million voters cast votes according to the rules in place on election day.14 President Trump lost. He and his supporters went to court, filing long-shot legal
               challenges to the election, but they failed in courts around the country, before judges
               appointed by executives of both parties (including President Trump himself), and,
               for those judges who were elected, that are members of both parties. 
            Rather than abiding by the rule of law and accepting the courts rulings, President
               Trump and his advisors tried every which way to reverse the outcome at the State level.
               They pressured local and State elections officials to stop counting votes once it
               became clear that former Vice President Joseph Biden would prevail in the final count.
               They pressured Governors, secretaries of State, and local officials not to certify
               the popular vote in several swing States that former Vice-President Biden had won.
               And, when that did not work, they pressured State legislators to disregard the vote
               counts and instead appoint Trump electors to vote in the electoral college. 
            This fundamentally anti-democratic effort was premised on the incorrect theory that,
               because the Constitution assigns to State legislatures the role of directing how electoral
               college electors are chosen (which every State legislature had done before the election, giving that power to the people at the ballot boxes) then the State
               legislatures could simply choose Trump/Pence electors after seeing the election results. In effect, President Trump and his advisors pushed for
               the rules to be changed after the electioneven if it meant disenfranchising millions
               of Americans.
            2.2 The Plan Emerges
            More than a month before the Presidential election, the media reported that the Trump
               Campaign was already developing a fallback plan that would focus on overturning certain
               election results at the State level. An article published on September 23, 2020, in
               The Atlantic explained, [a]ccording to sources in the Republican Party at the State and national
               levels, the Trump Campaign is discussing contingency plans to bypass election results
               and appoint loyal electors in battleground States where Republicans hold the legislative
               majority.15 Ominously, the same reporting predicted, almost exactly, what would later come to
               pass: With a justification based on claims of rampant fraud, Trump would ask State
               legislators to set aside the popular vote and exercise their power to choose a slate
               of electors directly.16 
            Numerous senior Trump Campaign advisorsincluding Campaign Manager William Stepien,
               Deputy Campaign Manager and Senior Counsel Justin Clark, and President Trumps lead
               attorney Rudolph Giulianiall told the Select Committee that there was, indeed, a
               State-focused strategy or track to challenge the outcome of the election, which
               included pressing State legislators to challenge results in key States and to appoint
               new electoral college electors.17 
            You know, in the days after election day, later in that first week, bleeding into
               the second, as our numbers and data looked bleaker, internally we knew that, Stepien
               told the Select Committee.18 As the AP [Associated Press] called the race, I think some surrounding the President
               were looking for different avenues to pursue. Thats when Stepien remembered the
               concept first coming up.19 
            Those around President Trump were pushing this idea, and pushing it hard. 
            Just two days after the election, President Trumps son, Donald Trump, Jr., forwarded
               to White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows a suggestion that State Assemblies can
               step in and vote to put forward the electoral slate[,] Republicans control Pennsylvania,
               Wisconsin, Michigan, North Carolina, etc. we get Trump electors and so we either
               have a vote WE control and WE win OR it gets kicked to Congress 6 January . . .20 Chief of Staff Meadows responded: Working on this for pa, ga and nc already.21 
            Within one week after the election, Meadows had also sent or received several other
               similar messages:
            The state legislature can take over the electoral processMark Meadowss text to
               Georgia State Senator Marty Harbin.22 
            AgreedMark Meadowss text to a different sender, who suggested that the Trump Administration
               should get that out there if they were seriously considering the state legislature
               strategy.23
            I will tell himMark Meadowss text to a sender who suggested President Trump [s]tart
               building momentum for the state legislatures.24
            I love itMark Meadowss text to Representative Andy Biggs, who relayed what he
               acknowledged as a highly controversial idea to have Republican legislatures (sic) appoint a look doors (sic) [electors].25
            . . . Why cant the states of GA NC PENN and other R controlled state houses declare
               this is BS (where conflicts and election not called that night) and just send their
               own electors I wonder if POTUS knows this . . .former Secretary of Energy Rick
               Perry to Mark Meadows.26 
            Another White House official exploring such a plan less than a week after the election
               was Vince Haley, Deputy Assistant to the President for Policy, Strategy and Speechwriting.
               He suggested: 
            . . . Imagine if every red state legislature slated zero electors. It would reveal
               that we are a red country. To do this we would have to jack this to the nth degree
               as a battle of tribes . . . .27
            Haley pushed this strategy in several texts and emails, including to Assistant to
               the President and Director of Presidential Personnel Johnny McEntee,28 an individual Haley characterized as a very trusted lieutenant for President Trump,
               a direct conveyor to Boss with ideas, and [a]t his side almost all the time.29
            For Haley, however, purported election fraud was a way to justify President Trump-friendly
               legislatures changing the outcome of the election, but there were other reasons for
               doing so, too. Election fraud was only one rationale for slating Trump electors,
               Haley told McEntee, and [w]e should baldly assert that State legislators have the
               constitutional right to substitute their judgment for a certified majority of their
               constituents if that prevents socialism.30 Haley added, [i]ndependent of the fraudor really along with that argumentHarrisburg
               [Pennsylvania], Madison [Wisconsin], and Lansing [Michigan] do not have to sit idly
               by and submit themselves to rule by Beijing and Paris, proposing that radio hosts
               rally the grassroots to apply pressure to the weak kneed legislators in those states
               . . .31  
            McEntee replied Yes! and then: Lets find the contact info for all these people
               now.32 Hours later, Haley sent him names andin most casescell phone numbers for top GOP
               legislators in six States, suggesting . . . for POTUS to invite them down for a WH
               meeting . . .33 The President would later call several named in that message, including Rusty Bowers
               and Karen Fann in Arizona; Lee Chatfield and Mike Shirkey in Michigan; and Jake Corman
               in Pennsylvania.34
            Others weighed in with the President about a State-focused plan, too. Some were already
               looking ahead to January 6th.  
            On November 8th, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich met President Trump at
               the White House.35 Two days later, he sent a follow-up note to the Presidents executive assistant titled
               please give to POTUS[,] newt.36 It suggested that [t]he only way Trump loses is rigged system and added that President
               Trump could encourage GOP legislatures elect not to send in electors, forcing a
               House vote by State delegations on January 6th that Gingrich expected President Trump
               would win.37 Meadows replied: Thanks Speaker.38
            Newsmax CEO Christopher Ruddy had President Trumps ear and reportedly spoke with
               him by phone at least four times before December.39 He forwarded a memo to other close advisors of the President recommending that the
               Trump team persuade one or more Republican-led chambers in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan,
               Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and even Minnesota to pick a separate competitive State
               slate of Electors, which the memo predicted might turn January 6th into a cat-fight
               in Congress wherein VP Pence is Presiding.40
            
                  Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images
               
            
            Attorney and conservative activist Cleta Mitchell was recruited by Mark Meadows immediately
               after the election to assist the Trump Campaigns legal work.41 By November 5th, she emailed Dr. John Eastman of Chapman University,42 who would later play an outsized role pushing a theory about what Vice President
               Pence could or couldnt do during the January 6th joint session of Congress that is
               detailed in Chapter 5 of this Report. In her email, Mitchell asked Eastman to write
               a memo justifying an idea that State legislators reclaim the power to pick electors
               and asked, rhetorically, Am I crazy?43 Dr. Eastman wrote the memo, entitled The Constitutional Authority of State Legislatures
               to Choose Electors, and sent it along for sharing widely.44
            According to the Office of Presidential Scheduling, President Trump was scheduled
               to meet in the Oval Office on November 10th with Morgan Warstler and John Robison,
               Texas entrepreneurs close to former Governor Rick Perry.45 The next day, Warstler tweeted that he [w]as in Oval yesterday,46 and months later wrote that I told whole Trump team in Oval that State legislatures
               can choose the electors-no matter what current state law OR state courts say.47  
            After this apparent meeting, John Robison sent the White House an email entitled URGENT
               follow up to our Tuesday Meeting with POTUS, that he asked be printed out for the
               President to explain the move forward plan for what was discussed.48 The email stated that [President Trump] liked the plan we presented to use a parallel
               path of state legislators, and the attached memo proposed hundreds of briefings for
               State lawmakers by President Trumps surrogates and members of the Freedom Caucus.49 The email envisioned President Trump hosting 4+ MONSTER RALLY-TRIALS with [t]ens
               of thousands of Trump voters staring up at the GOP state legislators from their districts
               who ALONE control which slate of electors their state will submit, a proposal that
               seemed to foreshadow the State hearings that Rudolph Giuliani and President Trump
               championed less than a month later.50 
            Deputy White House Chief of Staff Dan Scavino called Robisons message Bat. Shit.
               Crazy, but the Presidents executive assistant, who was asked to print it for the
               President, wrote Printed, and may have shared it with the President anyway.51
            By then, President Trump was engaged. According to Stepien, his Campaign Manager,
               the State-focused strategy came up in a November 11th meeting among close advisors
               as something to consider.52 At that point, the election had been called, but the President was very interested
               in keeping pathways to victory open, so [Stepien] believe[d] [the President] found
               the concept intriguing.53 Then, the plan just started happening even though it was something Stepien, honestly,
               kind of dismissed at hand, characterizing it as one of the crazy, crazier ideas
               that w[as] thrown out, in and around that time.54 
            But not everyone was convinced. On November 19th, the prior Republican Presidential
               nominee, Senator Mitt Romney (R-UT), issued a harsh public condemnation of President
               Trumps open and notorious efforts to overturn the election:
            Having failed to make even a plausible case of widespread fraud or conspiracy before
               a court of law, the President has now resorted to overt pressure on state and local
               officials to subvert the will of the people and overturn the election. It is difficult
               to imagine a worse, more undemocratic action by a sitting American President.55
            Senator Romney was right to identify and decry President Trumps actions. And yet,
               in hindsight, it is clear that the effort to pressure State and local officials by
               the Trump team was only just getting started.
            2.3 Outreach and Implementation of the Plan
            Just one day after the State-focused plan came up in the Oval Office with the President
               and his top lieutenants, President Trump started taking concrete steps aimed at State
               legislators. And in the weeks that followed, the President spearheaded outreach aimed
               at numerous officials in States he lost but that had GOP-led legislatures, including
               in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and Arizona.
            The Select Committee estimates that in the two months between the November election
               and the January 6th insurrection, President Trump or his inner circle engaged in at
               least 200 apparent acts of public or private outreach, pressure, or condemnation,
               targeting either State legislators or State or local election administrators, to overturn
               State election results. This included at least:
            
               68 meetings, attempted or connected phone calls, or text messages, each aimed at one
                  or more State or local officials;
               18 instances of prominent public remarks, with language targeting one or more such
                  officials;56 and
               125 social media posts by President Trump or senior aides targeting one or more such
                  officials, either explicitly or implicitly, and mostly from his own account.57
            
            Furthermore, these efforts by President Trumps team also involved two other initiatives
               that tried to enlist support from large numbers of State legislators all at once:
            
               The Trump Campaign contacted, or attempted to contact, nearly 200 State legislators
                  from battleground States between November 30, 2020 and December 3, 2020, to solicit
                  backing for possible Statehouse resolutions to overturn the election. At least some
                  messages said they were on behalf of the president.58
               Nearly 300 State legislators from battleground States reportedly participated in a
                  private briefing with President Trump, Rudolph Giuliani, John Eastman, and others
                  on January 2nd. The President reportedly urged them to exercise what he called the
                  real power to choose electoral votes before January 6th, because, as President Trump
                  said on the call, I dont think the country is going to take it.59
            
            It may be impossible to document each and every meeting, phone call, text message,
               or other contact that President Trump and his allies had with State and local officials
               in various battleground States. What follows is a summary that focuses on four States
               and that demonstrates the lengths to which President Trump would go in order to stay
               in power based on liesthe Big Lieabout the election.
            President Trumps Early Pressure On Public Servants 
            To carry out his plan, President Trump, Rudolph Giuliani, and other surrogates of
               President Trump publicly and privately sought assistance from State and local officials
               whom they assumed would help as Republicans on the same team with the same goal.60 Some helped. Others didnt.
            On November 12th, U.S. Representative Tim Walberg (R-MI) sent an email to President
               Trumps Executive Assistant Molly Michael, describing a request he had received earlier
               that day:
            During my conversation with the President this morning he asked me to check with key
               leadership in Michigans Legislature as to how supportive they could be in regards
               to pushing back on election irregularities and potential fraud. He wanted me to gauge
               their willingness to talk with him about efforts to bring about transparency and integrity
               in Michigans election and report back to him.61
            Representative Walberg added that he had already acted on this request: Ive had
               conversations with [Michigan] Speaker Lee Chatfield, Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey,
               and Senate President Pro Tempore Aric Nesbitt. They all assured me they would look
               forward to speaking with the President to report on their continuing efforts related
               to overseeing the election and receiving any suggestions from President Trump.62 The President would soon host Chatfield, Shirkey, Nesbitt, and four other Michigan
               State lawmakers at the White House.63
            In Arizona, on November 13, 2020, the day after officials finished counting ballots
               cast in Maricopa County, Chairwoman Kelli Ward, of the Arizona Republican Party, texted
               Mark Meadows that she had [j]ust talked to POTUS and that [h]e may call the Chairman
               of the Maricopa Board of Supervisors, Clint Hickman.64 Ward also left a message for Hickman that said, I just talked to President Trump,
               and he would like me to talk to you and also see if he needs to give you a call to
               discuss whats happening on the ground in Maricopa. Give me a call back when you can.65 According to Hickman, Ward was unusually active after the election, even for a party
               chair, and was the first person to pressure him. One of her first messages to Hickman
               before trying to connect him with President Trump was: We need you to stop the counting.66 
            In Georgia, the President initially took a more public approach. After the Associated
               Press called the race there on November 12th, President Trump tweeted harsh criticisms
               of Governor Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger.67 Often these tweets called for them to take specific actions that would have shifted
               the election results in his favor, such as rejecting a court settlement (which he
               referred to as a consent decree) that dictated the procedures for verifying signatures
               on absentee ballots. And he was relentless.  
            In November alone, President Trump tweeted that Raffensperger was a so-called Republican
               (RINO) and asked Where is @BrianKempGA,68 before suggesting that They knew they were going to cheat.69 He called to Break the unconstitutional Consent Decree!70 and urged stricter signature matches with a demand to Get it done! @BrianKempGA.71 He called Kemp hapless and asked why he wouldnt use emergency powers to overrule
               Raffensperger on the signature-verification procedures, declaring that Georgia Republicans
               are angry.72 President Trump also retweeted posts asking, Who needs Democrats when you have Republicans
               like Brian Kemp, and why bother voting for Republicans if what you get is Ducey
               and Kemp?73
            Pennsylvania was an early, but not unique, example of how President Trumps State-pressure
               campaign affected the lives of the public servants running this countrys elections.
            On November 7th, Rudy Giuliani headlined a Philadelphia press conference in front
               of a landscaping business called Four Seasons Total Landscaping, near a crematorium
               and down the street from a sex shop.74  
            Standing in front of former New York Police Commissioner and recently-pardoned convicted
               felon, Bernard Kerik, Giuliani gave opening remarks and handed the podium over to
               his first supposed eyewitness to election fraud, who turned out to be a convicted
               sex offender.75 Giuliani claimed at least 600,000 ballots are in question in Pennsylvania and falsely
               suggested that large numbers of ballots in the State had been cast for dead people,
               including boxer Joe Frazier and actor Will Smiths father.76  
            Within days, Republican Philadelphia City Commissioner Al Schmidt and others publicly
               debunked Giulianis specific allegations of election fraud, including the claims about
               dead people voting in Pennsylvania elections.77 In reaction, President Trump tweeted on the morning of November 11th that [a] guy
               named Al Schmidt, a Philadelphia Commissioner and so-called Republican (RINO), is
               being used big time by the Fake News Media to explain how honest things were with
               respect to the Election in Philadelphia. He refuses to look at a mountain of corruption
               &amp; dishonesty. We win!78 
            That statement targeting Schmidt led to a deluge of threatening and harassing phone
               calls and emails by people who heard President Trump and falsely held out hope that
               Schmidt or someone else could overturn the results of Pennsylvanias election.79 
            As a public official, Schmidt was no stranger to threats. But being targeted by the
               President of the United States was different. In Schmidts public testimony to the
               Select Committee, he described why. [P]rior to that the threats were pretty general
               in nature. Corrupt election officials in Philadelphia are going to get whats coming
               to them and other similar threats.80 After the President tweeted at me by name, calling me out the way that he did,
               Schmidt explained, the threats became much more specific, much more graphic, and
               included not just me by name but included members of my family by name, their ages,
               our address, pictures of our home. Just every bit of detail that you could imagine.81
            As the President continued to push the Big Lie and vilify public officials, such threats
               multiplied.
            Efforts to Prevent State and Local Officials From Certifying the Election
            Some of President Trumps early outreach was part of an effort to prevent State and
               local officials from certifying his loss. One example comes from Michigan, and the
               other from Arizona.
            Wayne County, Michigan, includes Detroit and its surrounding areas. On November 17th,
               the countys Board of Canvassers met to certify election results, a process the Michigan
               Supreme Court described over a century ago as ministerial and clerical.82 
            The meeting started at 6:00 p.m. and lasted over three hours.83 Its two Republican members, Board Chair Monica Palmer and Board Member William Hartmann,
               first voted to block the certification of the election.84 After a brief break, Palmer and Hartmann returned, changed their votes, and certified
               the election results.85 Just over twenty minutes later, Palmer and Hartmann received a call from President
               Trump and RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel.86 
            Palmer claimed that the call was not pressure. Rather, she said, [i]t was genuine
               concern for my safety and there were general comments about different States, but
               we really didnt discuss the details of the certification.87 
            The Select Committee doesnt know exactly what President Trump privately said on that
               phone call.88 By the next evening, however, Palmer and Hartmann had each issued signed affidavits
               reassuming their earlier position that Wayne Countys results should not be certified.89 Palmers affidavit even declared that I rescind my prior vote, though rescinding
               wasnt possible and her statement had no legal effect.90 And, President Trump apparently knew before it was public that Hartmann and Palmer
               would try to change their votes; almost eight hours before either of these affidavits were publicly released, President Trump tweeted that these
               two harassed patriot Canvassers refuse to sign the papers!91
            Republicans in Arizona experienced similar treatment. In the most populous and electorally
               significant county in Arizona, Maricopa Countys Board of Supervisors met on November
               20th to certify the countys election results. Their Board, made up of four Republicans
               and one Democrat, carefully reviewed the official canvass, asked questions for approximately
               two hours, then unanimously voted to certify the results.92 
            Earlier that day, Kelli Ward contacted two of the boards members, Jack Sellers and
               Bill Gates, and asked them to delay the certification on the basis of supposed improprieties.93 According to Sellers and Gates, however, Arizona law required certification that
               day and they had no information (neither then, nor ever) to doubt the countys election
               results.94 
            When Arizona certified its 2020 statewide election results on November 30th, it fell
               to Governor Doug Ducey, a Republican, to sign the certification. While on camera during
               the signing ceremony, Governor Duceys phone played a ringtone for the song Hail
               to the Chief, which he immediately silenced.95 
            The Governor later confirmed it had been President Trump calling and that he returned
               the Presidents call shortly afterwards, but declined to say what the two discussed
               other than saying that President Trump did not ask him to withhold certification.96 The Select Committee does not know whether that is true, but that evening President
               Trump blasted Ducey on Twitter, accusing him of rushing to put a Democrat in office,
               and warning that Republicans will long remember!97 The President also retweeted posts bashing Ducey and his Georgia counterpart Brian
               Kemp, which asked Who needs Democrats when you have Republicans like Brian Kemp and
               Doug Ducey?, why bother voting for Republicans if what you get is Ducey and Kemp?,
               and Brian Kemp: My state ran the most corrupt election in American history. Doug
               Ducey: Hold my beer.98 President Trump even commented TRUE! when retweeting a post that Gov Ducey has
               betrayed the people of Arizona.99 
            Governor Ducey pushed back, writing on Twitter that, Ive been pretty outspoken about
               Arizonas election system, and bragged about it quite a bit, including in the Oval
               Office . . . In Arizona, we have some of the strongest election laws in the country
               . . . The problems that exist in other states simply dont apply here.100 Governor Ducey explained the law for certifying elections in Arizona and pointed
               out that the certification now triggered a 5-day window for any elector to bring
               a credible challenge to the election results in court. If you want to contest the
               results, now is the time. Bring your challenges.101 And, Governor Ducey referenced his oath of office: Thats the law. Ive sworn an
               oath to uphold it, and I take my responsibility seriously.102 President Trump and his allies never brought a credible challenge and, instead, lost
               every case they brought challenging the results in Arizona.
            Efforts to Replace Electoral College Electors and Overturn The Election
            Once counties and States certified the election, or when it was nearly certain that
               they would, President Trump and his teams focus largely shifted. President Trump
               and his team encouraged State legislators to meet in special sessions, if necessary,
               and choose electoral college electors who would vote for the Trump/Pence ticket. Ultimately,
               no State legislature took that step, but it was the basis for pressuring State officials
               from November through January 6, 2021.
            
                  Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty Images
               
            
            Meetings With State LegislatorsThe Hearings
            The concept of State legislators appointing their own electors featured prominently
               in a series of hastily arranged official and unofficial hearings with State legislators
               that the Trump team announced on November 24, 2020.103
            On November 25th, President Trump called in to an unofficial meeting with legislators
               in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.104 The meeting was set up to appear like an official hearing, but it was not. It took
               place in a hotel ballroom, and those presenting arguments or purported evidence, like
               Giuliani, Jenna Ellis, and others, were not placed under oath.105 According to President Pro Tempore of the Pennsylvania Senate Jake Corman, he had initially been asked by State Senator
               Doug Mastriano to hold a hearing about the election. Corman responded that any formal
               hearing should be official, with sworn testimony, and open to both parties.106 That was not what Senator Mastriano ultimately convened. 
            President Trump had originally made plans to attend the Pennsylvania gathering in
               person, but he cancelled after several advisors tested positive for COVID19.107 When President Trump called in and spoke to those gathered in the hotel ballroom,
               his false claims were met with cheers, and he made his purpose clear: this election
               has to be turned around . . . Why wouldnt they overturn an election? Certainly overturn
               it in your State . . . We have to turn the election over.108 
            President Trump made the ask and Giuliani told the legislators how to carry it out.
               Giuliani told the assembled legislators that it was their power and responsibility
               to pick Pennsylvanias presidential electors and that [they] have to convince the
               rest of [their] members, Republican and Democrat, they owe that to the people of
               Pennsylvania.109 Jenna Ellis told them that although Pennsylvania law dictates that electors are chosen
               by popular vote, [y]ou can take that power back at any time. You dont need a court
               to tell you that.110
            President Trump invited some of the lawmakers to come meet him at the White House
               that evening and, according to Giuliani, it was a large group that went.111 Special Assistant to the President Cassidy Hutchinsons text messages with Kerik
               included the guest list and descriptions of the vehicles that would need access to
               the White House grounds.112 Pennsylvania State Senator Doug Mastriano drove one car, a hired driver drove a van
               with most of the State legislators, and Kerik drove an SUV with attorney Katherine
               Friess and election-conspiracy proponent Phil Waldron.113 Hutchinson estimated that at least 29 visitors traveled from Pennsylvania to the
               White House that day, and she explained that their conversation with the President
               touched on holding a special session of the State legislature to appoint Trump electors.114 
            Just a few days later, on November 30, 2020, President Trump also called into another
               one of Giuliani and Jenna Elliss hotel hearings, this time in Arizona. Several
               Arizona State lawmakers hosted the meeting at a Hyatt Regency in Phoenix after they
               did not receive permission to organize an official hearing at the State Capitol.115 Before the hearing started, State GOP Representative Mark Finchem promised information
               to show that the states 11 electoral votes should not go to Democrat Joe Biden,
               and argued that the U.S. Constitution empowers lawmakers to decide, on their own,
               whether the election was valid and, if not, to select the electors of their choice.116
            Giuliani told the assembled legislators that the officials certifying Arizonas election
               results have made no effort to find out if the results of the election were accurate,
               which seems to me gives the state legislature a perfect reason to take over the conduct
               of this election because its being conducted irresponsibly and unfairly.117 Likewise, Jenna Ellis said that it was not just the choice, but the actual duty
               and obligation of the legislature to step in and to make sure that you dont certify
               false results.118 During a recess, she also took to Twitter, writing, [t]he certification of Arizonas
               FALSE results is unethical and knowingly participating in the corruption that has
               disenfranchised AZ voters. BUT, this in no way impacts the state legislatures ability
               to take back the proper selection of delegates.119 
            When it was President Trumps turn to address this handful of lawmakers over the phone,
               he called them legends for taking this on, and used the opportunity to criticize
               Governor Ducey: youll have to figure out whats that all about with Ducey. He couldnt
               [certify] fast enough and Arizona will not forget what Ducey just did. Were not
               gonna forget.120 That night Giuliani joined President Trump in criticizing Governor Ducey, while at
               the same time making baseless allegations about voting machines in Arizona and calling
               for a special legislative session to change the outcome of the election: Governor
               Ducey of Arizona refuses to meet with me. He doesnt want to explain that he selected
               a foreign corrupt Voting Machine company to count the vote. I understand his reluctance,
               but [sic] just call a special session. Lets find out how crooked your election really was?121  
            Michigan was next. Giulianis team announced that the Michigan legislature would hold
               a hearing on December 1st, but the relevant committee chair excluded Giuliani because
               it was only open to witnesses with first hand knowledge.122 That chairman, Michigan State Senator Edward McBroom (R-Vulcan), had already held
               Senate Oversight hearings by then in an actual effort to evaluate claims of fraud
               in the 2020 election, which ultimately resulted in a comprehensive report that concluded
               that the Republican-led committee found no evidence of widespread or systematic fraud
               in Michigans election.123
            Michigans House Oversight Committee, however, did allow Giuliani to testify in a
               hearing on December 2nd. Before the hearing, Giuliani joined the States GOP chairwoman
               to give what was billed as a legal briefing. In the online presentation, Giuliani
               told the audience theres nothing wrong with putting pressure on your state legislators124 to pick new electors and that you have got to get them to remember that their oath
               to the Constitution sometimes requires being criticized. Sometimes it even requires
               being threatened.125 
            When Giuliani appeared for the hearing in Michigan, he was not placed under oath,
               used his time to refer to Michigans election as a con job, and urged legislators
               to have the courage to say that certification that was done by your state is a complete
               phony.126 The information presented was baselessand sometimes racistconspiracy theories.
               One witness brought to criticize Michigans voter verification even said: I think
               Chinese all look alike. So how would you tell? If some Chow shows up, you can be anybody
               and you can vote.127 And, as he had promised in the legal briefing the day before, Giuliani then called
               on the legislators to do what the Trump Campaign had reportedly been discussing since
               before election day. He said that the State legislature could still singlehandedly
               decide the election result anytime you want to. Anytime. You can take it back tonight.
               You can take it back the day before the electors go down to Washington.128 Jenna Ellis also participated, insisting no honest person can hear these citizens
               of your own state today . . . and can let this proceed. What the Constitution obligates
               you to do is to take back your plenary power.129
            Finally, Georgia. There, Giuliani and others appeared in multiple hearings, the first
               of which was held on December 3, 2020. In that hearing, Giuliani was direct and called
               on Georgia legislators to overturn the election resultsyou are the final arbiter
               of who the electors should bebased on the false premise that there is more than
               ample evidence to conclude that this election was a sham.130 Then, at a separate hearing on December 10th, he told State legislators that Georgias
               Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and secretary of State were engaged in a cover up
               of a crime in plain sight, and that it fell to the state legislature [ ] to vindicate the honor of the state.131 And, Giuliani used yet another appearance, on December 30th, to call the 2020 election
               the most crooked election, the most manipulated election in American history, and
               implore the Republican legislators to hold a special session to vote on appointing
               new electors, something he said that they could do right up until the last moment
               before January 6th.132
            More perniciously, Giuliani also used these hearings to advance conspiracy theories
               that falsely accused Fulton County election workers of rigging Georgias election
               results. His delegation to the December 3rd hearing played clips of election-night
               surveillance footage from the State Farm Arena that showed election workers scanning
               ballots, sometimes after partisan poll watchers had gone home.133 Although the poll watchers should have been there the entire time while election
               workers counted the votes, there was nothing nefarious about the circumstances and
               no question about the end result. In fact, the FBI, Department of Justice, and Georgia
               Bureau of Investigation would determine that these ballots were legitimate ballots,
               that observers were not illegally ejected, and that the ballots were scanned and counted
               properly, contrary to claims by President Trump and his attorneys.134 And yet Giuliani baselessly declared at the December 3rd hearing that, to him, the
               video was a powerful smoking gun proving that those votes are not legitimate votes.135  
            But Giulianis claims took a more ominous turn during the December 10th hearing. There,
               he publicly named two of the election workers shown in the video, Ruby Freeman and
               her daughter, Wandrea ArShaye Shaye Moss, and accused them of vote-tampering and
               engaging in criminal conduct.136 He seized on a clip of Freeman passing Moss a ginger mint, claiming that the two
               women, both Black, were smuggling USB drives as if theyre vials of heroin or cocaine.
               He also suggested that Freeman and Moss should be jailed and that they deserved to
               have their homes searched.137 Not only were Giulianis claims about Freeman and Moss reckless, racist, and false,
               they had real-world consequences that turned both womens lives upside down. And further
               heightening the personal impact of these baseless attacks, President Trump supported,
               and even repeated, them, as described later.
            In the end, the hearings were widely panned. In Michigan alone, current and former
               Republican lawmakers publicly questioned the hearings and implored President Trump
               and his team to stop. U.S. Representative Paul Mitchell (R-Mich.) implored on Twitter
               Please JUST STOP! and wondered why Republican leaders allowed testimony he said
               was driving the party into this ditch.138 Similarly, former Michigan lawmaker Martin Howrylak (R-Oakland) said that he was
               embarrassed by the hearing, and former Michigan Senator Ken Sikkema (R-Grand Rapids)
               said that the way the committee was run was atrocious.139 Later, the President promoted a tweet calling a Democratic lawmaker a #pos for
               speaking out at the Michigan hearing.140 Months later, Giulianis license to practice law in New York was suspended for, among
               other reasons, the false claims he made on various dates, including during the hearings
               in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, and Georgia.141 
            The Trump Campaigns Barrage of Phone Calls to State Legislators
            Not only was replacing electors a theme during the official and unofficial State hearings,
               it was also a critical component of President Trumps plan both before and after the
               hearings took place. 
            In fact, while the hearings were happening, the Trump Campaign set up an operation
               to contact hundreds of State legislators and ask them to support an effort to appoint
               electoral college electors for the Trump/Pence ticket in States that President Trump
               had lost.
            On the same day as Giulianis hearing in Michigan, Trump Campaign staff contacted
               dozens of Republicans in Michigans State legislature. A Trump Campaign supervisor
               sent text messages to his team, directing them to reach out to lawmakers to explain
               the process for legislative redress and tell them how to send representative[s] to
               th[e] electoral college.142 He added: Were gonna be lobbyists. Woot.143 
            According to a Campaign staffers spreadsheet produced to the Select Committee, the
               Trump Campaign apparently tried contacting over 190 Republican State legislators in
               Arizona, Georgia, and Michigan, alone.144
            One voicemail left as part of this initiative was leaked to the press on December
               1, 2020. In it, a Trump Campaign staffer said, I did want to personally reach out
               to you on behalf of the President.145 Her main point came later in the message: we want to know when there is a resolution
               in the House to appoint electors for Trump if the President can count on you to join
               in support.146 Another message from this effort that reached reporters made the same ask and claimed
               that, [a]fter a roundtable with the President, he asked us to reach out to you individually
               to whip support for a joint resolution from the State House and Senate that would
               allow Michigan to send electors for Donald J. Trump to the Electoral College and
               save our country.147
            Soon after the voicemail leaked, the Campaign staffer who left this voicemail got
               a text message from one of her supervisors, who wrote: Honest to god Im so proud
               of this because [t]hey unwittingly just got your message out there.148 He elaborated: you used the awesome power of the presidency to scare a state rep
               into getting a statewide newspaper to deliver your talking points.149
            Outreach by President Trump and Senior Aides
            While Campaign aides blanketed State officials with these calls, some State officials
               received more personalized outreach directly from President Trump, Giuliani, and their
               allies throughout the post-election period about this issue.
            Michigan
            As discussed earlier, Rep. Walberg reached out to State legislators in Michigan at
               the Presidents request in mid-November, including Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey
               and House Speaker Lee Chatfield. By November 18th, President Trump called Chatfield
               and Shirkey to invite them to what would become a meeting for a group of Michigan
               lawmakers in the Oval Office.150 Although President Trump didnt tell Shirkey what the meeting would be about, the
               President was focused on the election and asked Shirkey what he and others were doing
               to investigate election fraud.151 The meeting happened on November 20th.152
            In Shirkeys words, there wasnt a mystery about why the group was at the White
               House once the meeting started.153 When the President mentioned several baseless claims of election fraud in Wayne County,
               Shirkey told the President that he had lost the election and that it had nothing to
               do with Wayne County, where he had actually performed better than he had in 2016.154  
            From the Presidents body language, Shirkey concluded that wasnt what he wanted to
               hear. But the meeting continued, and the President dialed in Giuliani, who delivered
               a long monologue, reciting a litany of allegations about supposed fraud that was
               short on substance.155 Shirkey challenged Giuliani, asking when are you going to . . . file a lawsuit in
               Michigan, which he said Giuliani did not answer.156 Although Shirkey says he did not recall the President making any precise ask, Chatfield
               recalled President Trumps more generic directive for the group to have some backbone
               and do the right thing.157 Chatfield understood that to mean they should investigate claims of fraud and overturn
               the election by naming electors for President Trump.158 Shirkey told the President that he was not going to do anything that would violate
               Michigan law.159
            
                  Photo by Rey Del Rio/Getty Images
               
            
            After the meeting ended, Shirkey and Chatfield issued a joint statement: We have
               not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election
               in Michigan and as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal
               process regarding Michigans electors, just as we have said throughout this election.160
            That was not the end, however. Chatfield and Shirkey received numerous calls from
               the President in the weeks following the election. Chatfield told the Select Committee
               that he received approximately five to ten phone calls from President Trump after
               the election, during which the President would usually ask him about various allegations
               of voter fraud.161 Chatfield said that he repeatedly looked into the Presidents claims, but never found
               anything persuasive that could have changed the outcome of the election.162 
            President Trumps calls were not enough, so he turned to the public. On January 3,
               2021, the Trump Campaign posted a tweet that urged supporters to Contact Speaker
               Lee Chatfield &amp; Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey to Demand [a] vote on decertification.163 Why President Trump thought the Michigan legislature would convene to decertify the
               election in a matter of hours when it had refused to do so since early November is
               not clear. But that didnt stop the President from making things personal. The Presidents
               January 3rd tweet included Shirkeys personal cellphone number as well as a number
               for Chatfield that turned out to be wrong. As a result, Shirkey said he received nearly
               4,000 text messages, and another private citizen reported being inundated with calls
               and texts intended for Chatfield.164
            Pennsylvania
            On November 21st, Mark Meadows texted a number apparently belonging to Representative
               Scott Perry (RPA) and asked: Can you send me the number for the speaker and the
               leader of the PA Legislature. POTUS wants to chat with them.165 Hours later, Meadows received a response of Yes sir.166 At the time, the leader of the Pennsylvania Senate was Jake Corman and the Speaker
               of the Pennsylvania House was Bryan Cutler.
            Corman told the Select Committee that he received a call on Thanksgiving Day 2020
               from Giuliani, urging him to call the legislature into a special session to replace
               Biden electors with Trump electors.167 This idea wasnt new to Corman. President Trump and his allies had gone public about
               their intentions before then, including during the Pennsylvania hotel hearing, but
               Corman had braced himself for this even before the election. Before election day in
               2020, a reporter from The Atlantic interviewed Corman and other prominent Republicans in Pennsylvania about the possibility
               that President Trump would try to circumvent the popular vote in swing States by asking
               the legislatures to appoint Trump/Pence electors. After the article, Corman drafted
               an op-ed, making it clear that the Pennsylvania legislature did not have the legal
               authority to appoint Trump/Pence electors in contravention of the popular vote, a
               position that he would generally maintain through the 2020 Presidential election cycle.168 
            During that call, Giuliani first tried pumping [Corman] up as a patriot before asking
               the Senator to call the Pennsylvania legislature into a special session. Corman told
               Giuliani that he did not have the authority to do that, a position with which his
               own lawyers agreed.169 Giulianis reply was that Corman must have bad lawyers. Corman said he offered to
               connect Giuliani with his legal team. His legal team spoke with Giuliani and a lawyer
               working with him, Jenna Ellis, the following day, reiterating their view that such
               a move by the legislature would be illegal.170 That same day, or possibly the next, Giuliani and Ellis called him back to renew
               their request for a special legislative session and to demean Cormans attorneys,
               calling them terrible, bad, and wrong.171 Corman, however, held his ground and ended the call.172
            While packing to return to Pennsylvania from his Thanksgiving visit to Florida, Corman
               says he received a call from an unknown number with a Washington, DC area code, which
               he let go to voicemail.173 It turned out to be a White House operator calling on behalf of President Trump.174 
            Corman called back and spoke to President Trump, who insisted that he had won the
               election in Pennsylvania and said something to the effect of, Jake, this is a big
               issue. We need your help.175 Corman told the President that he couldnt do what the Trump team was asking; President
               Trump replied, Im not sure your attorneys are very good.176 Corman wanted to end the call and offered to have his lawyers speak again with President
               Trumps, but they never had another call with the Presidents lawyers.177
            Pennsylvania House Speaker Bryan Cutler was another main target for the Presidents
               team. He received voicemails in late November for four days in a row from Giuliani
               and/or Jenna Ellis, which he provided to the Select Committee.178 Cutler explained that he did not feel comfortable talking with the Presidents team
               in case he ended up having to preside over a legislative session about the election,
               and he had his attorneys relay that to the Presidents team.179 Giuliani received the message but continued to call Speaker Cutler nonetheless.180 
            In the first of these voicemails, on November 26th, Giuliani asked to get together,
               quietly to discuss the amount of fraud that went on in your State, and said that
               Giuliani and Ellis had also just spoken to Pennsylvania House Majority Leader Kerry
               Benninghoff.181 On November 27th, Ellis called and said in a second voicemail that they had just
               talked to Pennsylvania House Member Russ Diamond and were very grateful to the States
               legislature for doing your Article II duty.182 On November 28th, Giuliani left a third voicemail and claimed to have something
               important that really changes things, and said that the president wanted me to
               make sure I got it to you.183 And then on November 29th, Giuliani left a fourth message and said, I understand
               that you dont want to talk to me now but still sought the courtesy of being able
               to talk to you as the presidents lawyer and a fellow Republican because youre
               certifying what is a blatantly false statement . . . I cant imagine how thats in
               your interests or in the interests of our party.184
            Giuliani and Ellis didnt get through, but the President did. [I]f we wanted to do
               something, what were the options[?] the President asked Cutler.185 Cutler explained to President Trump that he could file a legal challenge contesting
               the election, and asked the President why his team had never requested a statewide
               recount.186 Cutler was also clear about the constitutional peculiarities of Pennsylvania, where
               the State constitution specifically prohibits retroactive changes to how electors
               are chosen.187 
            Practically, President Trumps call achieved nothing. The President wasnt getting
               what he wanted in his calls to leaders in Pennsylvania: a special session of the legislature
               to appoint Trump/Pence electors.
            Seemingly undeterred, President Trump invited several leaders of the Pennsylvania
               legislature to the White House for Christmas gatherings.188 Senator Corman decided not to go, although Speaker Cutler did. President Trump spoke
               with Cutler on December 3rd, while Cutler, his chief of staff, and their wives were
               at that White House Christmas tour.189 The issue of overturning the results of Pennsylvanias election came up again, as
               did the possibility of a special session of the State legislature to appoint Trump
               electors.190 Cutler told the President that the State legislature could not reconvene without
               an order from the Governor and a petition from a supermajority of legislators, neither
               of which was likely to happen.191 Cutler also told the President that they could not appoint new electors without a
               court order.  In Cutlers opinion, President Trump seemed to understand. And that
               wasthat was clear.192 The Presidents apparent understanding, however, did not result in any meaningful
               changes to his public rhetoric.
            On December 3rd, the same day that Cutler met with President Trump, Cutler, Corman,
               House Majority Leader Benninghoff, and Senate Majority Leader Kim Ward issued a three-page
               single-spaced joint statement asserting, in no uncertain terms, that Pennsylvanias
               General Assembly lacks the authority . . . to overturn the popular vote and appoint
               our own slate of electors, since [d]oing so would violate our Election Code and
               Constitution, particularly a provision that prohibits us from changing the rules for
               election contests of the President after the election.193 In response, President Trump retweeted a December 4th post by Bernard Kerik, which
               tagged all four of these State legislators with the hashtag Traitors, and declared
               that These are the four cowardice[sic] Pennsylvania legislators that intend to allow the Democrat machine to #StealtheVote!
               #Cowards #Liars #Traitors.194
            But five days later, President Trump publicly thanked Cutler for signing onto a December
               4th letter that encouraged Members of Congress from Pennsylvania to object to their
               States electoral votes on January 6th. The President tweeted: Thank you to Speaker
               Cutler and all others in Pennsylvania and elsewhere who fully understand what went
               on in the 2020 election. Its called total corruption!195 When the Select Committee asked Cutler about this apparent change in his position,
               he said that he signed on to this letter not because of concerns that fraud or corruption
               meant the results of the election Pennsylvania were wrong, but rather because of concerns
               about programmatic changes or areas for improvement related to the election.196 In fact, Cutler reiterated to the Committee that he was not personally aware of
               any widespread election fraud that would have changed the result of the election.197 
            The pressure facing State legislators during this period was significant. On December
               9th, the New York Times quoted Pennsylvanias Senate Majority Leader Kim Ward, revealing that she too had
               received a call from President Trump in which he pushed his election fraud narrative.198  Ward told the Times that she hadnt been given enough time to sign the same December 4th letter that
               Cutler did, but commented that if she had taken a stand against it, Id get my house
               bombed tonight.199 
            Arizona
            In late November, Arizona House Speaker Russell Rusty Bowers, a longtime Republican
               who served 17 years in the State legislature, received a call from President Trump
               and Giuliani.200 Giuliani alleged that Arizonas election results were skewed by illicit ballots,
               cast by non-citizens or on behalf of dead people.201 Bowers demanded proof for these audacious claims on the call and President Trump
               told Giuliani to comply, but the evidence never came.202 The point of the call, however, was different. Like in Michigan and Pennsylvania,
               President Trump and his allies were working the phones to get something. They wanted
               Bowers to hold a public hearing with the ultimate aim of replacing Presidential electors
               for former Vice President Joe Biden with electors for President Trump.203 
            Bowers had never heard of anything like that before, and Giuliani acknowledged that
               it had never been done.  Where President Trump and Giuliani saw a potential opportunity,
               however, Bowers saw a fundamental problem.
            
                  Photo by House Creative Services
               
            
            As Bowers explained it, what they wanted him to do was counter to my oath when I
               swore to the Constitution to uphold it.204 And he said that to the President and Giuliani: you are asking me to do something
               against my oath, and I will not break my oath.205 Giuliani replied: arent we all Republicans here? I mean, I would think you would
               listen a little more open to my suggestions, that were all Republicans.206 
            The pressure didnt stop with that call. On December 1st, Giuliani and Ellis got an
               audience with some of the most powerful Republican lawmakers in Arizona, including
               Bowers, Senate President Karen Fann, Senate President Pro Tempore Vince Leach, House
               Majority Leader and Senator-Elect Warren Petersen, Senate Majority Whip Sonny Borrelli,
               Senator Michelle Ugenti-Rita, and others.207 The Select Committee was unable to get Giuliani and Ellis perspective on this outreach
               because Giuliani claimed that his communications with Bowerswho was not his client
               nor part of his legal teamwere privileged, while Ellis invoked her Fifth Amendment
               rights against self-incrimination.208 
            Bowers, on the other hand, told the Select Committee that Giuliani and Ellis asked
               the lawmakers to deliver Arizonas electors for President Trump, despite the certified
               popular vote count.209 To bolster their request, Giuliani and Ellis raised numerous allegations of election
               fraud at the meeting, though they never produced evidence in support of their claims.
               In live testimony before the Committee, Bowers recalled Giuliani saying in this meeting
               that weve got lots of theories, we just dont have the evidence.210 At the time, Bowers didnt know whether it was a gaffe or an example of Giuliani
               not thinking through what he had just said.211 In any event, Bowers said he and others in his group made particular note of that
               comment.212 And it was borne out; Bowers testified that No one provided me, ever, such evidence.213
            In late December, in another phone call with President Trump, Bowers reiterated that
               he would not do anything illegal for him.214 Afterward, John Eastman joined the chorus of Trump allies attempting to change his
               mind. In a call on January 4th that included the Speakers chief counsel as well as
               Arizona House Majority Leader-Elect Ben Toma, Eastman urged Bowers to hold a vote
               to decertify Arizonas Presidential electors.215 When Bowers told Eastman he couldnt unilaterally reconvene the legislature, Eastman
               urged him to just do it and let the court sort it out.216 Bowers refused and the Arizona legislature took no such action.
            Many of President Trumps efforts in Arizona focused on State officials, but his team
               also continued to reach out to the Board of Supervisors for Maricopa County even after
               it certified the election. One focus was voting machines. According to the Arizona Republic, Giuliani left a voicemail in mid- to late-December for Board Member Steve Chucri
               that I see were gonna get a chance to take a good look at those machines . . . give
               me a call as soon as you get a chance. The president also wanted me to pass on a few
               things to you, too.217 On December 4th, Giuliani also left a message for the Boards Chairman Clint Hickman:
               I was very happy to see that theres gonna be a forensic audit of the machines. And
               I really wanted to talk to you about it a bit. The President wanted me to give you
               a call. All right? Thank you. Give me a call back.218  Hickman chose not to call back.219 
            Then, on Christmas Eve, Giuliani left voicemails for Board Members Bill Gates and
               Jack Sellers, asking them to call him back. In his message for Gates, Giuliani said:
               
            Its Giuliani, President Trumps lawyer. If you get a chance, would you please give
               me a call?  I have a few things Id like to talk over with you. Maybe we can get this
               thing fixed up. You know, I really think its a shame that Republicans sort of are
               both in this, kind of, situation. And I think there may be a nice way to resolve this
               for everybody.220 
            In his message for Sellers, Giuliani said Id like to see if there is a way that
               we can resolve this so that it comes out well for everyone. Were all Republicans,
               I think we all have the same goal. Lets see if . . . we can get this done outside
               of the court.221 Like Hickman, neither Gates nor Sellers returned Giulianis calls.222
            So President Trump made the call himself. On December 31st, Board Chair Clint Hickman
               received a voicemail from the White House switchboard, asking him to call back for
               President Trump. Hickman said that he did not return the call, in part because the
               county was still facing litigation over the election.223 Another call from the White House came through on January 3rd with a request that
               Hickman call back for the President. But, by then, the Presidents call with Georgia
               Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, described below, had leaked, and Hickman didnt
               want to walk into that space.224
            Georgia
            On December 5th, President Trump traveled to Georgia to headline a rally and mobilize
               voters in advance of a January Senate runoff. But the Presidents day started with
               a morning call to Governor Brian Kemp during which they discussed reconvening the
               legislature in a special session.225 After the call, Kemp took to Twitter. He acknowledged that he had spoken to the President
               and that he told the President that he supported the idea of, and had already called
               for, a signature audit in Georgia.226 President Trump responded later that night by complaining that Georgia had not yet
               done a signature-verification audit and instead insisted that the Governor should
               [a]t least immediately ask for a Special Session of the Legislature.227 The following day, Governor Kemp and Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan issued a definitive
               statement rejecting President Trump and his allies calls to overturn the results
               in Georgia:
            While we understand four members of the Georgia Senate are requesting the convening
               of a special session of the General Assembly, doing this in order to select a separate
               slate of presidential electors is not an option that is allowed under state or federal
               law.
            State law is clear: the legislature could only direct an alternative method for choosing
               presidential electors if the election was not able to be held on the date set by federal
               law. In the 1960s, the General Assembly decided that Georgias presidential electors
               will be determined by the winner of the States popular vote. Any attempt by the legislature
               to retroactively change that process for the November 3rd election would be unconstitutional
               and immediately enjoined by the courts, resulting in a long legal dispute and no short-term
               resolution.228
            President Trump responded by directing his ire at Georgia officials and, throughout
               the month of December, President Trump grew even more relentless in his social media
               attacks against Kemp than he had been the previous month. He retweeted attorney Lin
               Wood calling on Georgians to call and urge the FBI to focus more on election fraud
               and [t]ell them to also investigate @BrianKempGA @GeoffDuncanGA &amp; @GaSecofState.229 And he retweeted another post by Lin Wood that depicted Governor Kemp and Secretary
               Raffensperger wearing masks digitally altered to show the Chinese flag, and warned
               that they will soon be going to jail.230 Even without his many retweets, President Trump posted an average of about one tweet
               per day in December 2020 either criticizing Governor Kemp or pressuring him explicitly
               or implicitly to take actions to help overturn the election.231
            President Trump seemed consumed with his plans to overturn the election and, based
               on documents obtained by the Select Committee, it appears that the President received
               input from many outside donors or advisors who had access to his staffs email addresses.
               On December 7th, a Trump donor named Bill White emailed senior Trump advisors, including
               Dan Scavino and Rudolph Giuliani, to say that he [j]ust spoke to [Georgia State]
               Senator [William Burton] Jones [who] asked if Potus can R[e]T[weet] this now pls,
               along with a tweet by Senator Jones that read: Georgia Patriot Call to Actioncall
               your state Senate &amp; House Reps &amp; ask them to sign the petition for a special session.232 President Trump and Giuliani each retweeted Senator Joness tweet an hour later.233
            Bill White also emailed Molly Michael, Dan Scavino, and Giuliani, on December 8th
               with information that he said POTUS asked me last night to send right away.234 He recommended a Presidential tweet criticizing Georgias Lt. Gov. Duncan as well
               as tweets to put pressure on Senate Majority Leader Mike Dugan and Senate President
               Pro Tempore Butch Miller.235 He wrote that President Trump would be calling Dugan and Miller to ask them to call
               special session and strategize with them why they are keeping this from happening.236 Dugan later confirmed that he had received a call from President Trumps office but
               that the two of them were not able to connect.237 And the following day, Steve Bannon revealed on his podcast that President Trump
               spoke to Georgia House Speaker Ralston and Speaker Pro Tempore Jan Jones.238 Speaker Ralston confirmed that he spoke to President Trump on December 7th about
               the election, during which he told the President that Georgia law made a special legislative
               session very much an uphill battle.239
            2.4 An Outright Request for Victory
            Beyond asking State officials to not certify, to decertify, or to appoint Trump electors
               for consideration during the joint session, President Trump and some of his closest
               advisors inserted themselves directly into the counting of ballots and asked, outright,
               for enough votes to win.
            White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows did this. Not only did he place calls on behalf
               of the President to election officials in Georgia, Meadows traveled there to personally
               visit election officials and volunteers, coordinated with Members of Congress, and
               even suggested that the President send election workers Trump memorabilia like presidential
               challenge coins and autographed MAGA hats, a suggestion that his assistant Cassidy
               Hutchinson thought could be problematic and, ultimately, did not act on.240 
            When Meadows made a visit on short notice to examine the audit of absentee ballots
               in Cobb County, Georgia, he spoke to Deputy Secretary of State Jordan Fuchs and Frances
               Watson, the Secretary of States chief investigator. Ultimately, Meadows connected
               Watson with the President, who claimed that he had won the election and pressed her
               to say that he had won. The Select Committee obtained a copy of their recorded call,
               which is detailed below. 
            The President told Watson that he had won Georgia . . . by a lot, told her, you
               have the most important job in the country right now, and suggested, when the right
               answer comes out youll be praised.241 Four days later, Meadows texted Deputy Secretary of State Fuchs, in which he asked,
               [i]s there a way to speed up Fulton county signature verification in order to have
               results before Jan 6 if the trump campaign assist[s] financially.242 Fuchs wrote in response that she Will answer ASAP.243
            Meadows also played a central role in the lead up to the Presidents January 2, 2021,
               call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. In fact, it was Meadows who
               originally sent text messages to Raffensperger and requested to speak: On November
               19th, he texted Mr Secretary. Mark Meadows here. If you could give me a brief call
               at your convenience. Thank you.244 And on December 5th, Meadows texted, mr Secretary. Can you call the White House
               switchboard at [phone number]. For a call. Your voicemail is full.245  Then, on December 11th, Meadows texted, Thanks so much to a number that apparently
               belongs to United States Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) after Rep. Hice told him
               that he had just made a statement regarding a recall on Raffensperger. If this is
               something Potus wants to know and help push . . . .246
            
                  Photo by House Creative Services
               
            
            All of that led to the remarkable January 2nd call between President Trump and his
               advisors on one side, and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger and his advisors on
               the other. By January 2nd, the President had tried to speak by phone with Raffensperger
               at least 18 times.247 Raffensperger, for his part, had avoided talking to the President because of ongoing
               litigation with the Presidents Campaign.248 Despite Raffenspergers reluctance, the two spoke, with their respective lawyers
               on the line. During the call, President Trump went through his litany of false election-fraud
               claims and then asked Raffensperger to deliver him a second term by finding just
               enough votes to ensure victory. The President said, I just want to find 11,780 votes,
               which is one more than we have because we won the State.249 He reiterated it several different ways: fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a
               break. You know, we have that in spades already. Or we can keep going, but thats
               not fair to the voters of Georgia because theyre going to see what happened.250 
            When it was clear that Raffensperger and his advisors would not agree to the Presidents
               request, the President ramped up the pressure by accusing them of committing crimes:
               the ballots are corrupt. And you are going to find that they arewhich is totally
               illegalit is more illegal for you than it is for them because, you know, what they
               did and youre not reporting it. Thats a criminal, thats a criminal offense. And
               you cant let that happen. Thats a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer . . .
               Im notifying you that youre letting it happen.251 
            The President would stop at nothing to win Georgia. Separate from asking Raffensperger
               to alter, without justification, the election results in Georgia, he also attacked
               election workers. In that call, President Trump mentioned Ruby Freemans name 18 times,
               referred to her daughter Shaye Moss several of those times, and accused them of crimes.252 Raffensperger and his aides rebutted President Trumps false claims of fraud on the
               call and explained why they were wrong, but they did not deliver the one thing President
               Trump wanted most: the 11,780 votes he asked for.253
            The next day, President Trump tweeted about his phone call with Raffensperger, falsely
               claiming that [Secretary Raffensperger] was unwilling, or unable, to answer questions
               such as the ballots under table scam . . . . He has no clue!254 He added that Raffensperger, Governor Kemp, and Lt. Governor Duncan are a disgrace
               and have done less than nothing about rampant political corruption.255  
            Even though Raffensperger and his team repeatedly told the President why his specific
               allegations of election fraud in Georgia were wrong,256 President Trump met the next day with the top leadership of the Justice Department
               in an effort to convince them to send a letter falsely claiming that the Department
               had identified significant concerns affecting the election results in Georgia and
               calling on Governor Kemp, Speaker Ralston, and Senate President Pro Tempore Miller
               to convene a special session.257 It was only after a showdown in the Oval Office, described in Chapter 4 during which
               the White House Counsel and others threatened to resign that President Trump decided
               against replacing Department of Justice leadership and issuing that letter.
            2.5 Some Officials Eagerly Assisted President Trump With His Plans
            While many State officials resisted President Trumps demands, some eagerly joined
               the Presidents efforts. 
            President Trump routinely coordinated with Pennsylvania State Senator Doug Mastriano,
               whose request led to the November 25, 2020, hotel hearing in Gettysburg, and who
               traveled to Washington to meet with the President afterward.258 Senator Mastriano, who would later charter and pay for buses to Washington for the
               Presidents Stop the Steal rally on January 6th and was near the Capitol during
               the attack, quickly rose to favor with the President.259 
            
                  Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images
               
            
            On November 30th, President Trump called Mastriano, interrupting him during a radio
               interview and telling listeners that Doug is the absolute hero and people are really
               angry in Pennsylvania.260 
            On December 5th, Senator Mastriano sent an email to President Trumps executive assistant,
               Molly Michael, with a Supreme Court Amicus Brief for the President that the pair discussed
               yesterday, related to a case brought by Representative Mike Kelly (RPA) against
               his own State, which the Supreme Court rejected just a few days later.261 
            On December 14th, President Trumps executive assistant sent Mastriano an email From
               POTUS with talking points promoting a conspiracy theory about election machines.262 
            And on December 21st, Mastriano sent another email for President Trump, in which he
               wrote: Dear Mr. Presidentattached please find the killer letter on the Pennsylvania election that we discussed last night that I only just completed.263 This letter recapped the Gettysburg hotel hearing on November 25th, and claimed that
               there is rampant election fraud in Pennsylvania that must be investigated, remedied
               and rectified.264 President Trump sent that letter to John Eastman, Acting Attorney General Jeffrey
               Rosen, Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue, Rush Limbaugh, former Florida
               Attorney General Pam Bondi, Lou Dobbs, and others.265
            As January 6th approached, Senator Mastrianos involvement in attempts to overturn
               the election only grew. On December 23rd, he led a second group of Pennsylvania State
               senators for a meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office, which Giuliani claimed
               swayed about 20 of them.266 Neither Speaker Cutler nor Senate President Corman participated.
            Mastriano also sent emails indicating that he spoke with President Trump on December
               27th, 28th, and 30th, along with files that President Trump had requested or that
               he had promised to him.267 One of these was a pair of letters from State senators asking U.S. Senate Majority
               Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy to reject Pennsylvanias
               electoral votes on January 6th.268 President Trumps executive assistant notified the White Houses Director of Legislative
               Affairs that [t]he President would like the below attached letters to be sent to
               Mitch and Kevin and all GOP house and senate members, but was told in reply, [g]iven
               the political nature of the letters, would you mind sending them?269  
            On January 5th, President Trump spoke again with Mastriano and then notified the White
               House operator that Mastriano will be calling in for the Vice President soon.270 That evening Senator Mastriano sent two more emails for the President. One was a
               letter addressed to Vice President Pence on behalf of nearly 100 legislators from
               various States; the other was a letter directed to McConnell and McCarthy from Pennsylvania
               lawmakers, this time asking Congress to postpone acting on the 6th.271 President Trump tweeted the letter that night, captioning it BIG NEWS IN PENNSYLVANIA!
               and, after midnight, he retweeted that Pennsylvania is going to Trump. The legislators
               have spoken.272 As described elsewhere in this report, that letter, and letters like it, were used
               in the effort to convince Vice President Pence that he could and should affect the
               outcome of the joint session of Congress on January 6th.
            The Select Committee subpoenaed Senator Mastriano to testify about these interactions
               with President Trump and his advisors, among other matters. Unlike numerous other
               witnesses who complied with subpoenas and provided deposition testimony to the Select
               Committee, Mastriano did not; he logged in to a virtual deposition at the appointed
               time but logged out before answering any substantive questions or even taking the
               oath to the tell the truth.273
            The President apparently got what he wanted in State officials like Senator Mastriano,
               but not those who dared question or outright reject his anti-democratic efforts to
               overturn the election. In some cases, those who questioned him made the President
               and his advisors dig in and push harder. On January 1st, Campaign Senior Advisor Jason
               Miller asked for a blast text and Twitter blast out that would urge President Trumps
               supporters to Contact House Speaker Bryan Cutler &amp; Senate President Pro Tem Jake
               Corman! to Demand a vote on certification.274 Senior Campaign attorneys, however, replied that this might violate Pennsylvanias
               very stringent lobbying laws and get them prosecuted or fined.275 Instead, they agreed on a similar call to action aimed at Arizona Governor Doug Ducey
               and Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers rather than Speaker Cutler and President Pro Tempore Corman in Pennsylvania.276
            2.6 The Final Outreach to State Legislators 
            The efforts to overturn the election through State legislatures continued throughout
               the final two weeks before the joint session of Congress on January 6th. Based on
               actual events and documents obtained by the Select Committee, President Trumps Campaign
               team, outside advisors, and motivated volunteers generally acted in accord with what
               was written down in a Strategic Communications Plan when engaging with, and sometimes
               demonizing, State officials. Activities that occurred thereafter were in accord with
               the plan.
            The Plan was explained in a document that was presented to the White House.277 The plan contemplated pressuring Republican legislators both in Congress and in six
               key swing States.  The document itself purports to be the product of the GIULIANI
               PRESIDENTIAL LEGAL DEFENSE TEAM and declared that We Have 10 Days to Execute This
               Plan &amp; Certify President Trump!278 
            Kerik told the Select Committee that pieces of the plan had been in place for some
               period of time before the document was actually created, and that he thought that
               the catalyst for actually memorializing the plan was the approaching deadline of
               January 6th.279 In fact, the 10-day plan to help certify president Trump had been the subject of
               continual discussions for 6 weeks and was being discussed every day at some point
               prior to the 10 days that were talking about. So it was a continuous thing that went
               on.280
            Ultimately, the Giuliani team shared the Strategic Communications Plan and urged its
               implementation. Kerik sent the plan to Mark Meadows via email on December 28th with
               this note, in part: 
            There is only one thing thats going to move the needle and force the legislators
               to do what their [sic] constitutionally obligated to do, and that is apply pressure
               . . . . We can do all the investigations we want later, but if the president plans
               on winning, its the legislators that have to be moved, and this will do just that.
               Were just running out of time.281 
            Neither Giuliani nor Kerik told the Select Committee that they recalled officially
               implementing the plan, and Giuliani said that he thought Meadows even rejected it,
               but there is no doubt that President Trumps team took certain actions consistent
               with it.282
            The document described its goal as a [n]ationwide communications outreach campaign
               to educate the public on the fraud numbers, and inspire citizens to call upon legislators
               and Members of Congress to disregard the fraudulent vote count and certify the duly-elected
               President Trump.283 The FOCUS of CAMPAIGN was SWING STATE REPUBLICAN SENATORS in Arizona, Georgia,
               Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, REPULBICAN [sic] MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE and REPUBLICAN MEMBERS OF THE SENATE.284  Among the steps that it recommended were RALLIES AND PROTESTS in six key swing
               States, including protests at Governors Mansions, Lt. Governors home[s], Secretary
               of States homes, and weak Members homes.285  
            Although the plan did not mention specific individuals by name, an apparently related
               document produced to the Select Committee by Giuliani did, naming State legislative
               leaders as TARGETS under a header of KEY TARGET STATE POINTS, including Arizona
               House Speaker Rusty Bowers, Arizona Senate President Karen Fann (incorrectly described
               as the State Senates majority leader), Georgia House Speaker David Ralston, Georgia
               Senate Majority Leader Mike Dugan, Georgia Senate President Pro Tempore Butch Miller
               as a possible back up, Michigan House Speaker Lee Chatfield, Michigan Senate Majority
               leader Mike Shirkey, Pennsylvania House Speaker Brian Cutler, Pennsylvania House Majority
               Leader Kerry Benninghoff, Pennsylvania Senate President Pro Tempore Jake Corman, Pennsylvania
               Senate Majority Leader Kim Ward, Wisconsin State Assembly Speaker Robin Vos, and Wisconsin
               Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald.286
            Consistent with these proposals, Giuliani appeared as a guest on Steve Bannons podcast
               on New Years Eve and told him that we have a weak element to our party . . . a cowardly
               element287 and, [n]ow I think every Republican knowsmaybe this is worsethis election was
               stolen.  Now the question is: can they live up to their oath of office? . . . We gotta
               start working on the leadership.288 Giuliani also described President Trumps objective in this effort: For the president,
               the way forward is really its in the hands of the leaders of those legislatures and
               the Members of Congress, and what our people can do is let them know what they think,
               and that theyre not gonna get away with pushing this aside. That the consequences
               of turning your back on a massive voter fraud are gonna be dire for them, and historically
               these people are gonna become enemies of the country.289
            A key component of this plan was to call out Republican officials who rejected President
               Trump and his teams efforts or claims of fraud. Kerik and numerous other members
               of the Campaigns legal team did just that. On December 27th, Kerik suggested that
               Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) was corrupt and said that for any Pennsylvania official
               to certify their vote, its malfeasance and criminal.290 That was entirely consistent with Keriks past tweets about the election, one of
               which apparently called public officials who betrayed President Trump spineless
               disloyal maggots.291 It wasnt just rhetoric, however, because, as described below, people showed up outside
               certain officials homesometimes menacinglyand, of course, showed up at the Capitol
               on January 6th.
            The pressure in those final days did not stop with the types of activities outlined
               in the Strategic Communications Plan. January 2, 2021, was a busy day for a Saturday
               at the Trump White House. That was the day President Trump called on Georgia Secretary
               of State Raffensperger to find enough votes for victory in Georgia and participated
               in a call with Lindsay Graham and Members of the Freedom Caucus to plan for the joint
               session on January 6th.292
            It was also the day that the President joined in a virtual briefing for nearly 300
               Republican legislators from swing States.293 The event was hosted by a short-lived organization called Got Freedom? that listed
               Jenna Ellis among its leadership team,294 and included Giuliani, John Eastman, and Peter Navarro as the programs featured
               speakers.295 A press release by Got Freedom? said that the meeting was hosted by Phillip Kline,
               a former attorney general of Kansas, who was disbarred in 2013.296 It indicated that purported proof of voter fraud should serve as an important resource
               for state legislators as they make calls for state legislatures to meet to investigate
               the election and consider decertifying their state election results.297
            According to the Washington Examiner, when President Trump joined the call he told the participants: You know that we
               won the election, and you were also given false numbers to certify. It quoted him
               saying [y]ou are the real power because [y]oure more important than the courts.
               Youre more important than anything because the courts keep referring to you, and
               youre the ones that are going to make the decision. When asked about that quote,
               specifically, Giuliani, who was on the call, said he didnt recall the exact words
               that the President used but told the Select Committee that would be the sum or substance
               of what he had been saying and what he believed.298 During the call, the President reportedly referenced the planned protests in Washington
               just days later on January 6th, and told the group I dont think the country is going
               to take it.299
            When reporting on the call, the Washington Examiner also provided details about what Giuliani told the assembled State legislators. Consistent
               with his teams Strategic Communications Plan, Giuliani said, [w]e need you to
               put excessive pressure on your leadership where the real weakness and cowardice is
               mostly located, and the report quoted Navarro telling them that Your job, I believe,
               is to take action, action, action.300 That evening, Navarro stated on Fox News that these legislatorsthey are hot, theyre angry, they want action, and we explained
               exactly how the Democrat Party as a matter of strategy stole this election from Donald
               J. Trump.301 
            Organizers from Got Freedom? sent a follow-up email that evening to participants on
               behalf of Phill Kline, in which they described the event as an important briefing
               for legislators who hold the power to decertify the results of their state elections.302 It emphasized the following:
            As elected officials in the House and Senate of your respective States, Professor
               Eastman laid out the Constitutional imperatives for you: 
            
               Assert your plenary power
               Demand that your laws be followed as written
               Decertify tainted results unless and until your laws are followed
               Insist on enough time to properly meet, investigate, and properly certify results
                  to ensure that all lawful votes (but only lawful votes) are counted.303
            
            The email also recommended that they . . . sign on to a joint letter from state legislators
               to Vice President Mike Pence to demand that he call for a 12-day delay on ratifying
               the election . . . on January 6th.304 The letter ultimately garnered more than 100 signatures by State legislators from
               Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.305 Doug Mastriano forwarded a copy of the letter via email to President Trumps executive
               assistant, and the National Archives produced to the Select Committee a printed version
               with a stamp at the top indicating, THE PRESIDENT HAS SEEN.306 
            But this plan would fail to sway its intended audience. As discussed in Chapter 5,
               the Vice President rejected this and numerous other attempts to convince him to act
               unlawfully on January 6th. The election had been decided and certified by the States.
               It was the Vice President and Congresss job to open and count the legitimate electoral
               college votes.
            And in the early morning hours of January 7th, after a day unlike any seen in American
               history, when a mob of angry insurrectionists attempted to violently upend a Presidential
               election, the Vice President and Members of Congress, shaken but steady, delayed but
               resolute, regrouped and reconvened and did their Constitutional duty to certify Joseph
               R. Biden as the next President of the United States.
            President Trumps plot to pressure State legislators to overturn the vote of the electoral
               college failedbut only barely. Even so, the consequences of President Trumps efforts
               to overturn State election results were significant.
            2.7 The Harm Caused by Demonizing Public Servants
            Many of the people who refused to be pushed into manipulating election resultsgovernors,
               secretaries of State, State legislators, State and local election officials, and frontline
               election workers just doing their jobsfound themselves subjected to public demonization
               and subsequent spamming, doxing, harassment, intimidation, and violent threats. Some
               of the threats were sexualized or racist in nature and targeted family members. President
               Trump never discouraged or condemned these tactics, and in fact he was an active participant
               in directing his supporters, through tweets and speeches, to apply pressure to public
               servants who would not comply.
            President Trump and his team were not above using incendiary rhetoric or threats to
               achieve their goal of overturning the election. Giuliani said so before the purported
               hearing in Michigan in December. Recall that he told an online audience, theres nothin
               wrong with putting pressure on your state legislators307 and you have got to get them to remember that their oath to the Constitution sometimes
               requires being criticized. Sometimes it even requires being threatened.308
            That pressure came privately and publicly in the post-election period. 
            Privately, for example, President Trump called Michigan Senate Majority Leader Mike
               Shirkey three times after their White House meeting: November 21st, November 25th,
               and December 14th.309 Shirkey did not recall many specifics of those calls and claimed he did not remember
               the President applying any specific pressure.310 The day after one of those calls, however, Shirkey tweeted that our election process
               MUST be free of intimidation and threats, and its inappropriate for anyone to exert
               pressure on them.311 From this and other public statements, it is clear that Shirkey was sensitive to
               outside forces pressuring people with roles in the election. In fact, the same day
               that the electoral college met and voted former Vice President Joe Biden as the winner
               of the 2020 Presidential election, Shirkey received another call from President Trump
               and issued another public statement. Shirkeys statement that day, December 14, 2020,
               read: Michigans Democratic slate of electors should be able to proceed with their
               duty, free from threats of violence and intimidation and [i]t is our responsibility
               as leaders to follow the law . . . .312  
            Publicly, President Trump used both Twitter posts and paid social media and cable
               television ads to advance his pressure campaign.
            In Arizona, for example, President Trump used social media to both praise and criticize
               legislators. When Speaker Bowers and Senate President Karen Fann requested an audit
               of Maricopa Countys election software and equipment, President Trump publicly commended
               them, retweeting a press release about their announcement and commenting: Thank you
               to Senate President Karen Fann and House Speaker Russell Bowersand all, for what
               you are doing in Arizona. A fast check of signatures will easily give us the state.313 But just days later, President Trump assailed Bowers for opposing a special session
               to appoint new electors. He retweeted a post by Campaign lawyer Christina Bobb that
               accused Bowers of intentionally misleading the people of Arizona and that included
               a demand by Stop-the-Steal organizer Ali Alexander for 50,000 phone calls to Rusty
               Bowers [r]ight the heck now to threaten him with a primary challenge.314  
            And, as his efforts to change the outcome of the election continued to meet resistance,
               President Trump personally approved a series of advertisements that the Campaign ran
               on cable television and social media in several important States. One advertisement
               in Arizona called for pressure on Governor Ducey in particular, alleging, The evidence
               is overwhelming. Call Governor Ducey and your legislators. Demand they inspect the
               machines and hear the evidence.315 Another claimed that illegal aliens voted, and here in Arizona Trump votes were
               discarded. Its an outrage. Call Governor Ducey and your legislators at 6025424331.
               Demand they inspect the machines and hear the evidence. Call Governor Ducey, at 6025424331.
               Stand up for President Trump. Call today. Paid for by Donald J. Trump for President,
               Inc.316
            Several days earlier, Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller had explained the
               intention for this round of advertisements in an email. He wrote that, the President
               and Mayor Giuliani want to get back up on TV ASAP, and Jared [Kushner] has approved
               in budgetary concept, so heres the gameplan in order to motivate the GOP base to
               put pressure on the Republican Governors of Georgia and Arizona and the Republican-controlled
               State legislatures in Wisconsin and Michigan to hear evidence of voter fraud before
               January 6th.317 Miller anticipated a budget of $5 million and asked for the messaging to follow an
               earlier round of advertisements, but the endings need to be changed to include phone
               numbers and directions to call the local Governor or state legislature.318 On December 22nd, Jason Miller texted Jared Kushner that POTUS has approved the
               buy.319
            References to anger and fighting were featured in some of the Presidents remarks
               during that period. After the Georgia Secretary of States Chief Operating Officer,
               Gabriel Sterling, made an impassioned public plea and accurately warned that someone
               would die as a result of the threatening election-related rhetoric that President
               Trump failed to condemn, President Trump dismissively tweeted in response: Rigged
               Election. Show signatures and envelopes. Expose the massive voter fraud in Georgia.
               What is Secretary of State and @BrianKempGA afraid of. They know what well find!!!320 The President also tweeted that, between Governor Ducey in Arizona and Governor Kemp
               in Georgia, the Democrat Party could not be happier because these Republicans fight
               harder against us than do the Radical Left and were singlehandedly responsible for
               losing him both States, something that Republicans will NEVER forget[.]321 Regarding Kemp, he asked Whats wrong with this guy? What is he hiding?322 and he alleged that RINOs Governor Kemp, Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan, and
               Secretary Raffensperger will be solely responsible for Senators Loeffler and Perdue
               losing their senate runoff because they [w]ont call a Special Session or check for
               Signature Verification! People are ANGRY!323
            President Trumps spoken remarks were not much different. After the President wrapped
               up a November 26th public phone call to wish U.S. service members a happy Thanksgiving,
               he answered a reporters question about election integrity in Georgia by lashing out
               at Secretary Raffensperger in particular. President Trump made several baseless claims
               of election fraud in Georgia, declared that Raffensperger himself appeared to be complicit,
               and labeled the Georgia Secretary of State an enemy of the people.324  
            President Trump and his teams practice of naming and viciously criticizing people
               had real consequences. Philadelphia City Commissioner Al Schmidts story, recounted
               earlier, is just one of many examples. And the consequences werent just limited to
               high-profile public figures. Schmidts deputy, for example, Seth Bluestein faced threats
               after being demonized by a surrogate for President Trump, and many of the threats
               he received were anti-Semitic in nature. He received a Facebook message telling him
               that EVERYONE WITH A GUN IS GOING TO BE AT YOUR HOUSE- AMERICANS LOOK AT THE NAME-
               ANOTHER JEW CAUGHT UP IN UNITED STATES VOTER FRAUD.325 Bluestein got a security detail at his home, and the experience gave his three-year-old
               daughter nightmares.326  
            Similarly, after President Trump promoted online accusations that Arizona House Speaker
               Rusty Bowers had been intentionally misleading the people of Arizona . . .327 Bowerss personal cell phone and home address were published,328 leading demonstrators to congregate at his home, honk horns and shout insults until
               police arrived.329 Bowers told the Select Committee this was the first of at least nine protests at
               his home, sometimes with protesters shouting into bullhorns and calling him a pedophile.330 One protestor who showed up at his home was armed and believed to be a member of
               an extremist militia.331
            Sadly, those were not isolated incidents. Stories similar to Schmidts and Bowers
               proliferated after President Trumps loss in the election. Examples from each of the
               States discussed in this chapter are documented below, but this list is by no means
               exhaustive:
            
               Arizona: After Secretary of State Katie Hobbss home address and sons phone number were publicly
                  released, demonstrators congregated outside her home chanting we are watching you.332 A social media user at the time recommended: Lets burn her house down and kill
                  her family and teach these fraudsters a lesson.333 Secretary Hobbs has continued to receive threats since then, reporting over 100 threats
                  to the FBI in mid-2022, including a September 2021 voicemail message that you should
                  be hunted and will never be safe in Arizona again.334
               Arizona: Maricopa County Recorder Adrian Fontes testified before Congress that his family
                  had go-bags packed in case they needed to evacuate and that, because of the threats,
                  he had moved his children out of the family home at least once for three days in
                  the wake of serious threats to [his] familys safety.335  
               Arizona: Paul Boyer, a Republican State senator, had to evacuate his family, get police protection,
                  and change his phone number after he voted against jailing Maricopas County Supervisors
                  over election disputes.336
               Arizona: On January 5, 2021, a comment on a blog suggested some members of the Maricopa County
                  Board of Supervisors have earned a good old fashioned neck tie party as punishment
                  for Treason.337 According to Board member Clint Hickman, the threats never abated.338 And on January 6th, police convinced Hickman and his family to leave their home.339  
               Michigan: Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson and her family were driven out of their home for
                  several days after dozens of protestors with bullhorns and firearms congregated outside
                  shouting obscenities and graphic threats into bullhorns340 while she spent time with her son and got him ready for bed.341 Secretary Benson said that she only feels safe sometimes as a result of continuing
                  threats.342
               Michigan: Several members of the Wayne County Board of Canvassers received threats, as did
                  Aaron Van Langevelde, a Republican member of the State Board of Canvassers.343 Van Langevelde was bombarded with communications and people began showing up at his
                  familys home, forcing police to ensure his and his familys safety and escort him
                  across the State after he voted to certify Michigans election.344
               Michigan: Detroit City Clerk Janice Winfrey, a Democrat, and Rochester Hills City Clerk Tina
                  Barton, a Republican, were both targeted. Barton had never before received a death
                  threat in over a decade of work as an election official but, as a result of the 2020
                  Presidential election, was subject to a torrent of threats and harassment, such
                  as an anonymous caller who repeatedly threatened to kill her and her family.345 Winfrey was confronted outside her home by a man who indicated he had been surveilling
                  her and that You are going to pay dearly for your actions in this election!346 She started carrying a firearm because death threats against her continued.347
               Michigan: Michigan House Speaker Lee Chatfield confirmed that I and my family have received
                  numerous threats, along with members on both sides of the aisle.348 This included the top Democrat on Michigans House Oversight Committee, Rep. Cynthia
                  Johnson, who was threatened with lynching after she challenged the witnesses that
                  Giuliani offered to her committee.349 One caller who allegedly threatened to kill Rep. Johnson and wipe out her family
                  in December 2020 called the Capitol again on the morning of January 7, 2021, and said
                  that everyone better get out of the building because itll fucking explode.350
               Pennsylvania: Secretary of the Commonwealth Kathy Boockvar said she received so many threats I
                  didnt feel comfortable walking the dog on the street.351 This included a message in November 2020 threatening to murder her in her home at
                  night, forcing her and her husband to flee for a week.352 Another voicemail she received after certifying Pennsylvanias election results threatened:
                  You crooked f***ing bitch. Youre done.353
               Pennsylvania: House Speaker Bryan Cutler told the Select Committee there were at least three protests
                  outside either his district office or his home, and that his then-15-year-old son
                  was home by himself for the first one.354 Senate Jake Cormans spokesperson revealed in December 2020 that he, too, was being
                  subjected to violent threats,355 something Senate Majority Leader Kim Ward also received.356
               Pennsylvania: Philadelphia City Commissioner Omar Sabir, spent several nights evacuated from his
                  home and continued to receive death threats a year after the 2020 election, reflecting
                  that, I feel anxiety every time I walk outside of the house.357 Commissioner Lisa Deeley, another City Commission colleague, also received death
                  threats and said she suffers occasional anxiety attacks as a result.358
               Georgia: After Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffenspergers email and phone number were
                  published, he said that he and his wife received frequent hostile messages, some of
                  which typically came in sexualized attacks.359 As a result, the Secretarys wife cancelled visits from their grandchildren out of
                  fear for the kids safety.360 That was not an overreaction as that came after police found self-identified members
                  of the Oath Keepers outside their home and after someone broke into their daughter-in-laws
                  house.361 
               Georgia: On January 5, 2021, Governor Kemp and Secretary Raffensperger were reportedly named
                  in a Craigslist post encouraging people to put an end to the lives of these traitors.362  
               Georgia: Fulton County Elections Director Richard Barron was named and depicted on screen
                  in the video President Trump played at his December 5th rally.  He said that this
                  incident led to a spike in death threats targeted at election workers, including himself.363 His teams registration chief, Ralph Jones, received death threats following the
                  election including one calling him a n[igger] who should be shot, and another threatening
                  to kill him by dragging his body around with a truck.364
               Georgia: Election offices in ten Georgia counties received emailed threats of bombings that
                  would make the Boston bombings look like childs play and that the death and destruction
                  would continue [u]ntil Trump is guaranteed to be POTUS . . . .365  
            
            One of the most striking examples of the terror that President Trump and his allies
               caused came in Georgia, where election workers Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss, mother
               and daughter, were besieged by incessant, terrifying harassment and threats that often
               evoked racial violence and lynching, instigated and incited by the President of the
               United States. 
            As described earlier, in a State legislative hearing in Georgia, Giuliani publiclyand
               baselesslyaccused Freeman and Moss of engaging in criminal conduct. He showed a video
               of Freeman passing Moss a ginger mint before claiming that the two women, both Black,
               were smuggling USB drives as if theyre vials of heroin or cocaine.366
            President Trump seemed fixated on Freeman and Moss, too. He played surveillance video
               showing them inside the State Farm Arena at a December 5th rally in Georgia,367 and mentioned Freeman by name 18 times during the January 2nd call to Secretary of
               State Raffensperger in which he asked the Secretary to simply find enough votes
               to ensure victory.368
            Freemans and Mosss lives were forever changed. After their contact information was
               published, they were besieged by the Presidents supporters. In early December 2020,
               Freeman told police she had received hundreds of threats at her home.369 Mosss son also started receiving threatening phone calls, including one stating
               he should hang alongside [his] nigger momma.370  
            In the wake of President Trumps December 5, 2020, rally, Freeman called 911 because
               strangers had come to her home trying to lure her out, sending threatening emails
               and text messages.371 She pleaded with the 911 dispatcher for help after hearing loud banging on her door
               just before 10 p.m. Lord Jesus, wheres the police? she asked the dispatcher. I
               dont know who keeps coming to my door. Please help me!372
            Ultimately, Freeman fled from her own home based on advice from the FBI.373 She would not move back for months.374 
            
                  Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
               
            
            In her testimony to the Select Committee, Freeman recounted how she had received hundreds
               of racist, threatening, horrible calls and messages and that now [t]here is nowhere
               I feel safenowhere.375 But its not just a sense of security that the President and his followers took from
               Freeman. She told the Select Committee that she also lost her name and reputation:
            My name is Ruby Freeman. Ive always believed it when God says that hell make your
               name great, but this is not the way it was supposed to be. I could have never imagined
               the events that followed the Presidential election in 2020. For my entire professional
               life, I was Lady Ruby. My community in Georgia where I was born and lived my whole
               life knew me as Lady Ruby . . . . Now I wont even introduce myself by my name anymore.
               I get nervous when I bump into someone I know in the grocery store who says my name.
               Im worried about whos listening. I get nervous when I have to give my name for food
               orders. Im always concerned of whos around me. Ive lost my name, and Ive lost
               my reputation.
            Ive lost my sense of securityall because a group of people, starting with Number
               45 and his ally Rudy Giuliani, decided to scapegoat me and my daughter Shaye to push
               their own lies about how the presidential election was stolen.376
            Freemans sense of dread is well-founded. According to Federal prosecutors, a member
               of the Oath Keepers militia convicted of multiple offenses for his role in the January
               6th insurrection had a document in his residence with the words DEATH LIST written
               across the top.377
            His death list contained just two names: Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss.378
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  See, e.g., Stephen Fowler, Risk-Limiting Audit Confirms Biden Won Georgia, GPB, (Nov. 19, 2020),
                  available at https://www.gpb.org/news/2020/11/19/risk-limiting-audit-confirms-biden-won-georgia; Addie Haney, Georgia Election Recount Results: Breaking Down Final Numbers, 11Alive,
                  (Dec. 7, 2020), available at https://www.11alive.com/article/news/politics/elections/georgia-election-recount-results-final-numbers/85-cbaacd70-f7e0-40ae-8dfa-3bf18f318645. 
               2.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript);  Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               3.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript);  Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               4.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript);  Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               5.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               6.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               7.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               8.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), at p. 194.
               9.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Brad Raffensperger, (Nov. 22, 2021), pp. 121-122, 126-27.
               10.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), at p. 194.
               11.  The Georgia Secretary of States Chief Operating Officer, Gabriel Sterling, gave
                  an impassioned public statement that included these points.  Georgia Election Official
                  Gabriel Sterling: Someones Going to Get Killed Transcript, Rev, (Dec. 1, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/georgia-election-official-gabriel-sterling-someones-going-to-get-killed-transcript.  Shortly thereafter, President Trump fired back on Twitter in the form of a quote-tweet
                  of a journalists post that included the full footage of these parts of Sterlings
                  remarks.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 10:27 p.m. ET,
                  available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201203173245/https://mobile.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333975991518187521 (quoting Brendan Keefe (@BrendanKeefe), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 4:22 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/BrendanKeefe/status/1333884246277189633). 
               12.  See Chapter 1. 
               13.  U.S. Const. art. II, 1, cl. 2 (Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the
                  Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of
                  Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but
                  no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under
                  the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.).
               14.  See Census Bureau Releases 2020 Presidential Election Voting Report, United States Census Bureau, (Feb. 17, 2022), available at https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2022/2020-presidential-election-voting-report.html. 
               15.  Barton Gellman, The Election That Could Break America, Atlantic, (Sept. 23, 2020) available at https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/11/what-if-trump-refuses-concede/616424/. 
               16.  Barton Gellman, The Election That Could Break America, Atlantic, (Sept. 23, 2020) available at https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/11/what-if-trump-refuses-concede/616424/.
               17.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 145-46, 148-53, 158;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 96, 98; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 42. Although certain Select Committee witnesses
                  confirmed the existence of this state-focused strategy, none testified that they knew
                  about the strategy before the election.
               18.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 145-46.
               19.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 145-46.
               20.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011213. Donald Trump Jr.
                  publicly urged State legislators to help the same day. He called on Twitter for his
                  father to go to total war over this election and retweeted a post by Fox News host
                  Mark Levin urging Republican State legislatures to GET READY TO DO YOUR CONSTITUTIONAL
                  DUTY by exercising THE FINAL SAY OVER THE CHOOSING OF ELECTORS. David Knowles,
                  As Vote Count Swings Toward Biden, Trumps Backers Hit the Caps-Lock Key on Twitter, Yahoo! News, (Nov. 5, 2020), available at https://www.yahoo.com/video/as-vote-count-swings-toward-biden-trump-backers-hit-the-caps-lock-on-twitter-223931950.html.
               21.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011318 (November 6, 2020,
                  text message from Mark Meadows to Donald J. Trump, Jr.).
               22.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011296 (November 5, 2020,
                  text message from Mark Meadows to Marty Harbin).
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011686, MM011687 (November
                  9, 2020, text messages between Mark Meadows and Russell Vought).
               24.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011560, MM011563 (November
                  7, 2020, text messages between Mark Meadows and Rep. Warren Davidson).
               25.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011449, MM011451 (November
                  6, 2020, text messages between Mark Meadows and Rep. Andy Biggs).
               26.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011087 (November 4, 2020,
                  text message from Rick Perry to Mark Meadows).
               27.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004070, p. 44; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00003041. 
               28.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00003543 (November 5,
                  2020, email from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee and Dan Huff re: State legislature
                  plenary power under Constitution to state electoral college electors); Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00003559 (November 5, 2020, email from
                  Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee and Dan Huff re: more notes on state legislature strategy);
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010233_0001
                  (November 6, 2020, email chain between Vincent Haley, Johnny McEntee, and Daniel Huff
                  re: Contact Info of key leaders in key States); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National
                  Archives Production), 076P-R000010198_0001 (November 6, 2020, email from Vincent Haley
                  to Johnny McEntee and Daniel Huff re: Horowitz: How Republican-controlled state legislatures
                  can rectify election fraud committed by courts and governors - TheBlaze); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010225_0001-10226_0001 (November
                  6, 2020, email from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee and Daniel Huff re: Contact info
                  of key leaders in key States and attaching contact info); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004070, 4103-04, 4111-12, 4124-25 (various text
                  messages between Vincent Haley, Johnny McEntee, and Daniel Huff discussing the state
                  legislature plan).
               29.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00003009 (November 8,
                  2020, email chain between Vincent Haley and Newt Gingrich re: More of my exchange
                  with John); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004103 (November
                  6, 2020, text message from Vincent Haley to Randy Evans).
               30.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00002107 (November 5,
                  2020, email chain between Vincent Haley, Daniel Huff, and Jonny McEntee re: more notes
                  on the state legislature strategy).
               31.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004103 (November 6,
                  2020, text message from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee).
               32.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004104 (November 6,
                  2020, text message from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee).
               33.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010225_0001
                  - 076P-R000010226_0001 (November 6, 2020, email from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee
                  and Daniel Huff re: Contact info of key leaders in key States and attaching contact
                  info); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010233_0001
                  (November 6, 2020, email chain between Vincent Haley, Johnny McEntee, and Daniel Huff
                  re: Contact Info of key leaders in key States).
               34.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010225_0001
                  - 076P-R000010226_0001 (November 6, 2020, email from Vincent Haley to Johnny McEntee
                  and Daniel Huff re: Contact info of key leaders in key States and attaching contact
                  info).
               35.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00004122-VMH-00004123
                  (November 8, 2020, text messages between Vincent Haley and Johnny McEntee).
               36.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010533_0001
                  (November 10, 2020, email from Newt Gingrich to Molly Michael re: Only two options--please
                  give to POTUS newt).
               37.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010533_0001
                  (November 10, 2020, email from Newt Gingrich to Molly Michael re: Only two options--please
                  give to POTUS newt).
               38.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010586_0001
                  (November 10, 2020, email from Mark Meadows to Newt Gingrich re: Only two options--please
                  give to POTUS newt).
               39.  Solange Reyner, Newsmax CEO Ruddy: Trump Very Concerned That Dems Will Steal Election, Newsmax, (Nov. 4, 2020), available at https://www.newsmax.com/newsmax-tv/chris-ruddy-2020-elections-democrats-white-house/2020/11/04/id/995386/; Christopher Ruddy (@ChrisRuddyNMX), Twitter, Nov. 12, 2020 4:43 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/ChrisRuddyNMX/status/1327004111154319360; Digest of Other White House Announcements (Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2020),
                  Government Publishing Office, p. 114, available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-2020DIGEST/pdf/DCPD-2020DIGEST.pdf; Michael M. Grynbaum and John Koblin, Newsmax, Once a Right-Wing Also-Ran, Is Rising, and Trump Approves, New York Times, (Nov. 22, 2020), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/22/business/media/newsmax-trump-fox-news.html; Cordelia Lynch, Trump Ally on Presidents Next Move after Thanksgiving Phone Call, Sky News, (Dec. 4, 2020), available at https://news.sky.com/story/trump-ally-on-presidents-next-move-after-thanksgiving-phone-call-12150612; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000009409_0001
                  (December 2, 2020, email from John McLaughlin to Molly Michael re: Newsmax National
                  Poll).
               40.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM008861-MM008865 (November
                  7, 2020, email from John McLaughlin to Mark Meadows and Newt Gingrich re: Gerald
                  Brants birthday party/ my Nov 7, 2020 memo on ON ELECTORAL L COUNT ACT OF 1887
                  AND REPUBLICAN PATHWAYS: [sic], and attaching memo forwarded by Christopher Ruddy).
               41.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Cleta Mitchell, (May 18, 2022), pp. 14-15; Jeremy Herb and Sunlen Serfaty,
                  How GOP Lawyer Cleta Mitchell Joined Trumps Team Deplorables Advancing His False
                  Election Fraud Claims, CNN, (Oct. 13, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/13/politics/trump-mitchell-georgia-election/index.html. 
               42.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Cleta Mitchell, (May 18, 2022), pp. 74-75.
               43.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman006671.
               44.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman007670- Chapman007671,
                  Chapman008087 (November 9, 2020, email chain between John Eastman, Lisa Nelson, Rep.
                  Seth Grove, and Cleta Mitchell re: Connections for today! and attaching memo).
               45.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production),076P-R000010584_0001 (November
                  10, 2020, email chain scheduling an external meeting with President Trump).
               46.  Break Up DC (@BreakItUp3), Twitter, Nov. 11, 2020, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201111104529/https://twitter.com/BreakItUp3/status/1326475581005950976 (Was in Oval yesterday. You are right.).  For attribution of the account to Warstler, see The RSnake Show, S01E10 - Morgan Warstler, YouTube, at 1:43:00 - 1:44:00, Apr. 20, 2022, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-ojD3QAYfo; Break Up DC (@BreakItUp3), Twitter, June 16, 2022, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20220616124842/https://twitter.com/BreakItUp3/status/1537414050510000128 (NO it is not. I went to the Oval right after election and spent an hour with Trump
                  sitting at Resolute desk. I explain it all here: https://youtu.be/k-ojD3QAYfo?t=2724  Hint : the electoral count act is unconstitutional - there is only one slate of
                  electors- whatever the state leg says).
               47. Break Up DC (@BreakItUp3), Twitter, June 15, 2022 7:40 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20220615234134/https://twitter.com/BreakItUp3/status/1537218579225268225 (archived) (She literally was advocating what I told whole Trump team in Oval- its a fact - state legislatures can choose the electors- no matter what current state
                  law OR state courts say ... just ratify it amongst themselves Thats WHY they call it a plenary power ever since Bush v. Gore.).
               48.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008528_0001
                  - 076P-R000008530_0001.
               49.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008528_0001
                  - 076P-R000008528_0003, 076P-R000008530_0001 - 076P-R000008530_0002.
               50.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008528_0001-076P-R000008528_0003, 076P-R000008530_0001-076P-R000008530_0002.
               51.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008531_0001,
                  076P-R000008257_0001.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 151-52.
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 153. This fits with several major news reports at the time. The New York Times reported that President Trump went into the meeting on the 11th with something he
                  wanted to discuss with his advisors, and press[ed] them on whether Republican legislatures
                  could pick pro-Trump electors in a handful of key states and deliver him the electoral
                  votes he needs. Maggie Haberman, Trump Floats Improbable Survival Scenarios as He
                  Ponders His Future, New York Times, (Nov. 12, 2020, updated Nov. 23, 2020), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/12/us/politics/trump-future.html. Similarly, late on November 11th, the Washington Post reported that President Trump had raised the idea of pressuring state legislators
                  to pick electors favorable to him, and the Wall Street Journal also called the option of state legislatures picking new electors one potential
                  strategy discussed by his legal team. Philip Rucker, Josh Dawsey &amp; Ashley Parker,
                  Trump Insists Hell Win, But Aides Say He Has No Real Plan to Overturn Results and
                  Talks of 2024 Run, Washington Post, (Nov. 11, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-election-results-strategy/2020/11/11/a32e2cba-244a-11eb-952e-0c475972cfc0_story.html; Rebecca Ballhaus, What Is Trumps Legal Strategy? Try to Block Certification of
                  Biden Victory in States, Wall Street Journal, (Nov. 11, 2020), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-is-trumps-legal-strategy-try-to-block-certification-of-biden-victory-in-states-11605138852.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 148-49.
               55.  Senator Mitt Romney (@MittRomney), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 10:36 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/MittRomney/status/1329629701447573504.
               56.  This figure is almost certainly a significant undercount, since it only includes
                  public remarks by President Trump, public testimony, or the most noteworthy interviews
                  conducted by one of his subordinates, but it does not include a review of every single
                  remark targeting State or local officials during this period by those presidential
                  subordinates.
               57.  This figure is also almost certainly an undercount, since it only includes those
                  posts by President Trumps campaign or advisors when they covered new ground that
                  was substantially different from social media posts that were already made by President
                  Trump.  Also, many of these posts were replicated across multiple platforms.
               58.  Jonathan Oosting, Trump Campaign Lobbies Michigan Lawmakers to Ignore Vote, Give Him Electors, Bridge Michigan, (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/trump-campaign-lobbies-michigan-lawmakers-ignore-vote-give-him-electors; MIRS Monday Podcast, Call to Legislator From Someone Claiming to be with Trump Campaign (12/1/2020), PodBean, Dec. 1, 2020, available at https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-iqskx-f3cfc6; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001570, (Undated
                  Basic Script for calls to Representatives/Senators).
               59.  Paul Bedard, Exclusive: Trump Urges State Legislators to Reject Electoral Votes,
                  You Are the Real Power, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/exclusive-trump-urges-state-legislators-to-reject-electoral-votes-you-are-the-real-power.  
               60.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Maricopa County Board of Supervisors Production), CTRL0000020072
                  (December 24, 2020, copy of voice message and a transcription) pp. 12); see also Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, Asked to Do Something Huge: An Audacious Pitch to Reverse Arizonas Election Results, AZ Central, (Dec. 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/18/arizona-audit-rudy-giuliani-failed-effort-replace-electors/6349795001/.
               61.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010292_0001
                  (November 12, 2020, email from Rep. Tim Walberg to Molly Michael).
               62.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010292_0001
                  (November 12, 2020, email from Rep. Tim Walberg to Molly Michael). The day after Representative
                  Walbergs call with the President, President Trumps assistant forwarded to the Acting
                  Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security a letter signed by two other Michigan
                  legislators outlining claims of supposed election fraud. Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  (Department of Homeland Security production), CTRL0000033284, (Nov. 13, 2020 email
                  from Molly Michael to Chad Wolf titled Re: Michigan Letter); Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  (no production listed, Ex. 44 from Chad Wolf interview), CTRL0000926977 (Nov. 13,
                  2020 letter to Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson from Michigan State Senators
                  Lana Theis and Tom Barrett).
               63.  Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2020, Digest of Other White House Announcements, Government Publishing Office, (Dec. 31, 2020), p. 115, available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-2020DIGEST/pdf/DCPD-2020DIGEST.pdf; Annie Grayer, Jeremy Herb &amp; Kevin Liptak, Trump Courts Michigan GOP Leaders in Bid
                  to Overturn Election He Lost, CNN, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/19/politics/gop-michigan-results-trump/.
               64.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM012007 (text from Kelli
                  Ward to Meadows).
               65.  Brahm Resnik, Stop the Counting: Records Show Trump and Allies Pressured Top Maricopa County Officials Over Election
                  Results, 12News, (July 7, 2021), available at https://www.12news.com/article/news/politics/stop-the-counting-records-show-trump-and-allies-pressured-top-maricopa-county-officials-over-election-results/75-61a93e63-36c4-4137-b65e-d3f8bde846a7. 
               66.  Select Committee to Investigation the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview with Clint Hickman, (Nov.
                  17, 2021); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Maricopa County Board of Supervisors Production),
                  CTRL0000020004.
               67.  Brian Slodysko, EXPLAINER: Why AP called Georgia for Biden, Associated Press, (Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/why-ap-called-georgia-for-joe-biden-29c1fb0502efde50fdccb5e2c3611017. 
               68.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 13, 2020 7:50 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1327413534901350400.jpg (archived). 
               69.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 14, 2020 9:29 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1327619653020110850.jpg (archived). 
               70.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 16, 2020 9:04 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1328338211284616193.jpg (archived). 
               71.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 1:46 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1329420741553643522.jpg (archived). 
               72.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 1:59 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1333410419554344964.jpg (archived). 
               73.  President Donald J. Trump, Tweets of November 30, 2020, The American Presidency Project, available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-november-30-2020; see also Fox 10 Staff, Tweet mocking Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey and Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp
                  Now on Billboard, Fox 10 News, (Dec. 9, 2020), available at https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/tweet-mocking-arizona-gov-doug-ducey-and-georgia-gov-brian-kemp-now-on-billboard. 
               74.  Miles Bryan, From Obscure To Sold Out: The Story Of Four Seasons Total Landscaping In Just 4 Days, NPR, (Nov. 11, 2020), available at https://www.npr.org/2020/11/11/933635970/from-obscure-to-sold-out-the-story-of-four-seasons-total-landscaping-in-just-4-d.
               75.  Matt Friedman, Man Featured at Giuliani Press Conference is a Convicted Sex Offender,
                  Politico, (Nov. 9, 2020), available at https://www.politico.com/states/new-jersey/story/2020/11/09/man-featured-at-giuliani-press-conference-is-a-sex-offender-1335241. 
               76.  McKenzie Sadeghi, Fact Check: No Evidence Vote Was Cast in Joe Fraziers Name, USA Today, (Nov. 14, 2020), available at https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/2020/11/14/fact-check-no-evidence-late-joe-frazier-voted-2020-election/6283956002/; Ledyard King and John Fritze, Trump Attorney Rudy Giuliani Says Trump Wont Concede,
                  Revives Baseless Claims of Voter Fraud, USA Today, (Nov. 7, 2020) available at https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/11/07/joe-biden-victory-president-trump-claims-election-far-over/6202892002/. 
               77.  Veronica Stracqualursi, Republican Election Official in Philadelphia Says Hes Seen No Evidence of Widespread
                  Fraud, CNN, (Nov. 11, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/11/politics/philadelphia-city-commissioner-2020-election-cnntv/index.html. 
               78.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 11, 2020 9:03 a.m. ET, available at
                  https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1326525851752656898.jpg (archived). 
               79.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), at 1:47:00 to 1:48:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr5QUInmGI8.
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), at 1:47:00 to 1:48:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr5QUInmGI8.
               81.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), at 1:47:00 to 1:48:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr5QUInmGI8.
               82.  See McQuade v. Furgason, 91 Mich. 438 (1892). The various Boards of Canvassers in Michigan know that the
                  certification process is clerical because they are so instructed in the official Michigan
                  Boards of County Canvassers Manual. See Procedures and Duties of the Boards of County Canvassers, State of Michigan, (July
                  2022), pp. 18-19, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/02lehman/BCC_Manual.pdf?rev=7270a5ddcefa465b8ab8b95930ef5890.
               83.  Minutes of Meeting Wayne County Board of Canvassers, Wayne County Board of Canvassers, (Nov. 17, 2020), p. 1, available at https://www.waynecounty.com/elected/clerk/board-of-canvassers.aspx.
               84.  Minutes of Meeting Wayne County Board of Canvassers, Wayne County Board of Canvassers, (Nov. 17, 2020), pp. 1-5, available at https://www.waynecounty.com/elected/clerk/board-of-canvassers.aspx.
               85.  Minutes of Meeting Wayne County Board of Canvassers, Wayne County Board of Canvassers, (Nov. 17, 2020), p. 5, available at https://www.waynecounty.com/elected/clerk/board-of-canvassers.aspx.
               86.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Monica Palmer, (Sept. 28, 2021); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel,
                  (Mar. 9, 2022); Phone records for Monica Palmer show calls from Ronna McDaniel at
                  9:53 PM and 10:04 PM. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               87.  Annie Grayer, Jeremy Herb, and Kevin Liptak, Trump Courts Michigan GOP Leaders in Bid to Overturn Election He Lost, CNN, (Nov. 19, 2020), https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/19/politics/gop-michigan-results-trump/. 
               88.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Monica Palmer, (Sept.
                  28, 2021). Palmer told the Select Committee that she could not recall the exact words
                  that President Trump used on the call, and she claimed that she could not even recall
                  whether the President raised issues related to the election.  
               89.  Kendall Karson, Katherine Faulders, and Will Steakin, Republican Canvassers Ask to Rescind Their Votes Certifying Michigan Election Results, ABC News, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/wayne-county-republican-canvassers-rescind-votes-certifying-election/story?id=74290114; Krystle Holleman and Spencer Soicher, Pair of Wayne Co. Board of Canvassers Members File Affidavits to Rescind Certification
                  of Election Results, WILX10, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.wilx.com/2020/11/19/pair-of-wayne-county-board-of-canvassers-members-file-affidavits-to-rescind-certification-of-election-results/; Paul Egan, GOP Members of Wayne County Board of Canvassers Say They Want to Rescind Votes to
                  Certify, Detroit Free Press, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/11/19/wayne-county-board-of-canvassers-monica-palmer-william-hartmann/3775242001/. 
               90.  Kendall Karson, Katherine Faulders, and Will Steakin, Republican Canvassers Ask to Rescind Their Votes Certifying Michigan Election Results, ABC News, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/wayne-county-republican-canvassers-rescind-votes-certifying-election/story?id=74290114; Krystle Holleman and Spencer Soicher, Pair of Wayne Co. Board of Canvassers Members File Affidavits to Rescind Certification
                  of Election Results, WILX10, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.wilx.com/2020/11/19/pair-of-wayne-county-board-of-canvassers-members-file-affidavits-to-rescind-certification-of-election-results/; Paul Egan, GOP Members of Wayne County Board of Canvassers Say They Want to Rescind Votes to
                  Certify, Detroit Free Press, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/11/19/wayne-county-board-of-canvassers-monica-palmer-william-hartmann/3775242001/.
               91.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 18, 2020 10:38 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1329086548093014022.jpg (archived). 
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jack Sellers and Bill Gates, (Oct. 6, 2021).
               93.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jack Sellers and Bill Gates, (Oct. 6, 2021).
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jack Sellers and Bill Gates, (Oct. 6, 2021).
               95.  Jonathan J. Cooper, Arizona Governor Silences Trumps Call, Certifies Election, Associated Press, (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-donald-trump-arizona-elections-doug-ducey-e2b8b0de5b809efcc9b1ad5d279023f4. 
               96.  Jonathan J. Cooper, Arizona Governor Silences Trumps Call, Certifies Election, Associated Press, (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-donald-trump-arizona-elections-doug-ducey-e2b8b0de5b809efcc9b1ad5d279023f4.
               97.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 3:39 p.m. ET, available at
                  http://web.archive.org/web/20201201024920mp_/https:/twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333556242984431616 (archived). 
               98.  President Donald J. Trump, Tweets of November 30, 2020, The American Presidency
                  Project, available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-november-30-2020; Tweet Mocking Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey and Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp Now on Billboard, Fox 10 News, (Dec. 9, 2020), available at https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/tweet-mocking-arizona-gov-doug-ducey-and-georgia-gov-brian-kemp-now-on-billboard. 
               99.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 3:40 p.m. ET, available at
                  http://web.archive.org/web/20201201022358/https:/twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333556458575818754 (archived). 
               100.  Doug Ducey (@DougDucey), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 9:48 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dougducey/status/1333603735855976450.
               101.  Doug Ducey (@DougDucey), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 9:48 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dougducey/status/1333603735855976450.
               102.  Doug Ducey (@DougDucey), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 9:48 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dougducey/status/1333603735855976450.
               103.  Pennsylvania, Arizona, Michigan Legislatures to Hold Public Hearings on 2020 Election, Donald J. Trump for President, (Nov. 24, 2020), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201130045430/https:/www.donaldjtrump.com/media/pennsylvania-arizona-michigan-legislatures-to-hold-public-hearings-on-2020-election/.
               104.  Donald Trump Remarks Transcript: Pennsylvania Republican Hearing on 2020 Election,
                  Rev, (Nov. 25, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-remarks-transcript-pennsylvania-republican-hearing-on-2020-election. 
               105.  Teresa Boeckel and J.D. Prose, Pa. GOP Lawmakers Host Giuliani to Hear Election
                  Concerns. Trump Visits Via Cell Phone, York Daily Record, (Nov. 25, 2020), available at https://www.ydr.com/story/news/politics/2020/11/25/pa-gop-lawmakers-host-rudy-giuliani-hear-election-concerns/6420319002/.  
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               107.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008474_0001
                  (November 25, 2020, email from Jared Small confirming that Trump will not be present
                  in Gettysburg); Philip Rucker, Ashley Parker, Josh Dawsey, and Amy Gardner, 20 Days of Fantasy and Failure: Inside Trumps Quest to Overturn the Election, Washington Post, (Nov. 28, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-election-overturn/2020/11/28/34f45226-2f47-11eb-96c2-aac3f162215d_story.html; Alayna Treene and Rebecca Falconer, Trump Cancels Pennsylvania Trip for GOP Hearing
                  on Voter Fraud Claims, Axios, (Nov. 25, 2020) available at https://www.axios.com/2020/11/25/trump-pennsylvania-gop-hearing-voter-fraud-claims.  Apparently, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows also contemplated going to
                  Pennsylvania for the hearing when the President couldnt attend. Text messages between
                  Cassidy Hutchinson and Meadowss Secret Service detail say, U heard how mark is motorcading to gburg right[,] and
                  potus isnt anymore. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson production), CH-CTRL0000000080
                  (Nov. 25, 2020).
               108.  Donald Trump Remarks Transcript: Pennsylvania Republican Hearing on 2020 Election,
                  Rev, (Nov. 25, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-remarks-transcript-pennsylvania-republican-hearing-on-2020-election. 
               109.  Pennsylvania Senate Republican Lawmaker Hearing Transcript on 2020 Election, Rev, (Nov. 26, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/pennsylvania-senate-republican-lawmaker-hearing-transcript-on-2020-election. 
               110.  Pennsylvania Senate Republican Lawmaker Hearing Transcript on 2020 Election, Rev, (Nov. 26, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/pennsylvania-senate-republican-lawmaker-hearing-transcript-on-2020-election.
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 6566; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Molly Michael,
                  (Mar. 24, 2022), pp. 5960, 62; Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2020, Digest of Other White House Announcements, Government Publishing Office, (Dec. 31, 2020), p. 116, https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-2020DIGEST/pdf/DCPD-2020DIGEST.pdf. 
               112.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson production), CH-CTRL0000000062 (Nov.
                  25, 2020, Cassidy Hutchinsons text messages with Bernie Kerik).
               113.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson production), CH-CTRL0000000062 (Nov.
                  25, 2020, Cassidy Hutchinsons text messages with Bernie Kerik).
               114.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 87, 91-92.
               115.  Howard Fischer, GOP Officials Still Fighting Arizonas Vote Tally on Very Day Bidens Win Will Be
                  Certified, Tuscon.com, (Nov. 30, 2020), available at https://tucson.com/news/local/gop-officials-still-fighting-arizonas-vote-tally-on-very-day-bidens-win-will-be-certified/article_021fbb5c-673f-549a-9cbb-900178c17079.html. 
               116.  Howard Fischer, GOP Officials Still Fighting Arizonas Vote Tally on Very Day Bidens Win Will Be
                  Certified, Tuscon.com, (Nov. 30, 2020), available at https://tucson.com/news/local/gop-officials-still-fighting-arizonas-vote-tally-on-very-day-bidens-win-will-be-certified/article_021fbb5c-673f-549a-9cbb-900178c17079.html.
               117.  Right Side Broadcasting Network, LIVE: Arizona State Legislature Holds Public Hearing on 2020 Election, YouTube, at 2:08:56, Nov. 30, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rri6flxaXww&amp;t=7738s. 
               118.  Right Side Broadcasting Network, LIVE: Arizona State Legislature Holds Public Hearing on 2020 Election, YouTube, at 1:21:02, Nov. 30, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rri6flxaXww&amp;t=4862s. 
               119.  Jenna Ellis (@JennaEllisEsq), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 3:04 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/jennaellisesq/status/1333502306176835588. 
               120.  Remarks: Donald Trump Calls in to Meeting of Arizona GOP Lawmakers on Election, Factbase, (Nov. 30, 2020), available at https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-remarks-arizona-gop-meeting-election-november-30-2020. 
               121.  Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 11;17 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/RudyGiuliani/status/1333626364805533696. 
               122.  Pennsylvania, Arizona, Michigan Legislatures to Hold Public Hearings on 2020 Election, Donald J. Trump, (Nov. 24, 2020), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201130045430/https:/www.donaldjtrump.com/media/pennsylvania-arizona-michigan-legislatures-to-hold-public-hearings-on-2020-election/; Jonathan Oosting (@jonathanoosting), Twitter, Nov. 24, 2020 5:35 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/jonathanoosting/status/1331365885123178499; Jonathan Oosting (@jonathanoosting), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 3:42 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/jonathanoosting/status/1333511772448370689.  
               123.  See Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, (June 21, 2020), available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf. 
               124.  Wood TV8, Giuliani and Laura Cox Hold Legal Briefing Before Giving Testimony Wednesday Evening, Facebook Watch, at 10:30-10:45, Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.facebook.com/woodtv/videos/rudy-giuliani-and-laura-cox-hold-legal-briefing-before-giving-testimony-wednesda/1996033023872394/. 
               125.  Wood TV8, Giuliani and Laura Cox Hold Legal Briefing Before Giving Testimony Wednesday Evening, Facebook Watch, at 13:05-13:20, Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.facebook.com/woodtv/videos/rudy-giuliani-and-laura-cox-hold-legal-briefing-before-giving-testimony-wednesda/1996033023872394/.
               126.  Michigan House Oversight Committee, Public Hearing, (Dec. 12, 2020), at 4:03:13-4:04:22,
                  4:05:59-4:07:09, available at https://www.rev.com/tc-editor/shared/QQodU0TgHNW4ACZmBtqq6EbotJVTGos3UifEuLQA8ygjV7GrDDAeGJ6hdps86h_ywJAatI_KepUqEeZnloKHBiByyMI. 
               127.  Edward-Isaac Dovere (@IsaacDovere), Twitter, Dec. 3, 2020 7:56 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/IsaacDovere/status/1334481562193317888.  
               128.  Michigan House Oversight Committee, Public Hearing, (Dec. 12, 2020), at 4:09:04,
                  available at https://www.rev.com/tc-editor/shared/QQodU0TgHNW4ACZmBtqq6EbotJVTGos3UifEuLQA8ygjV7GrDDAeGJ6hdps86h_ywJAatI_KepUqEeZnloKHBiByyMI. 
               129.  Michigan House Oversight Committee, Public Hearing, (Dec. 12, 2020), at 4:35:15,
                  available at https://www.rev.com/tc-editor/shared/QQodU0TgHNW4ACZmBtqq6EbotJVTGos3UifEuLQA8ygjV7GrDDAeGJ6hdps86h_ywJAatI_KepUqEeZnloKHBiByyMI. 
               130.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 1:56:30 to 1:57:15, 5:29:20-5:32:45, Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw.
               131.  GA House Mobile Streaming, Governmental Affairs 12.10.20, Vimeo  Livestream, at 1:51:55-1:52:55, available at https://livestream.com/accounts/25225474/events/9117221/videos/214677184.  
               132.  Global TV Online, #LIVE: Georgia State Senate Holds Meeting on 2020 Election,
                  YouTube, at 3:08:00 to 3:09:30, 3:20:15 to 3:21:2, Dec. 30, 2020, available at https://youtu.be/D5c034r0RlU?t=12016.
               133.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 0:33:30-0:58:00, December 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. 
               134.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Byung J. Pak, (May 19, 2022), pp. 10-23; United States Senate
                  Judiciary Committee, Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (August 7, 2021), pp. 30-31, available
                  at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/rosen-transcript-final; Declaration of Frances Watson at 1-3, Pearson v. Kemp, No. 1:20-cv-04809 (N.D. Ga., Dec. 6, 2020), ECF No. 72-1, available at https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/20420664-frances-watson-affidavit; Response of the Georgia Secretary of State to the Courts Order of September 20,
                  2021 at 5-7, 41-47, 53, 55, Favorito v. Wan, No. 2020CV343938 (Fulton County Sup. Ct., Ga.,  October 12, 2021), available at
                  https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/21084096/favorito-sos-brief-in-response-to-order-of-92021-with-exs-a-and-b.pdf; William P. Barr, One Damn Thing After Another: Memoirs of an Attorney General (Harper Collins, 2022), at pp. 541-42; Georgia Election Officials Briefing Transcript
                  December 7: Will Recertify Election Results Today, Rev, (December 7, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/georgia-election-officials-briefing-transcript-december-7-will-recertify-election-results-today. 
               135.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 5:31:50-5:32:10, Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. 
               136.  GA House Mobile Streaming, Governmental Affairs 12.10.20, Vimeo  Livestream, at 2:09:00-2:13:00, available at https://livestream.com/accounts/25225474/events/9117221/videos/214677184. 
               137.  GA House Mobile Streaming, Governmental Affairs 12.10.20, Vimeo  Livestream, at 2:09:00-2:13:00, available at https://livestream.com/accounts/25225474/events/9117221/videos/214677184. 
               138.  Mike Wilkinson, The Rudy Giuliani Circus Has Left Lansing. The Reviews Are Bad, Bridge Michigan, (Dec. 3, 2020), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/rudy-giuliani-circus-has-left-lansing-reviews-are-bad.  
               139.  Mike Wilkinson, The Rudy Giuliani Circus Has Left Lansing. The Reviews Are Bad, Bridge Michigan, (Dec. 3, 2020), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/rudy-giuliani-circus-has-left-lansing-reviews-are-bad. 
               140.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 6, 2020 6:01 a.m. ET, https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335464302766149632.jpg (archived).
               141.  In the Matter of Rudolph W. Giuliani, No. 2021-00506, slip op at *2, 32 (N.Y. App. Div. May 3, 2021), available at https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/giuliani-law-license-suspension/1ae5ad6007c0ebfa/full.pdf. 
               142.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001501 (November
                  30, 2021, Michael Brown text message to group at 2:47 a.m.).
               143.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001501 (November
                  30, 2021, Michael Brown text message to group at 2:47 a.m.).
               144.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001528 - 1564
                  (Trump Campaign spreadsheet).
               145.  Mirs Monday Podcast, Call to Legislator from Someone Claiming to Be With Trump Campaign (12/1/20), Podbean.com, at 0:08, (Dec. 1, 2020), available at https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-iqskx-f3cfc6. 
               146.  Mirs Monday Podcast, Call to Legislator from Someone Claiming to Be With Trump Campaign (12/1/20), Podbean.com, at 1:32, (Dec. 1, 2020), available at https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-iqskx-f3cfc6.
               147.  Jonathan Oosting, Trump Campaign Lobbies Michigan Lawmakers to Ignore Vote, Give Him Electors, Bridge Michigan, (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/trump-campaign-lobbies-michigan-lawmakers-ignore-vote-give-him-electors. 
               148.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum production), McCallum_01_001523 (text
                  messages with Michael Brown).
               149.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum production), McCallum_01_001523 (text
                  messages with Michael Brown).
               150.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 8-10; Senator Mike Shirkey
                  (@SenMikeShirkey), Twitter, Nov. 20, 2020 6:13 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SenMikeShirkey/status/1329925843053899780. 
               151.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 10.
               152.  Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2020, Digest of Other White House Announcements, Government Publishing Office, (December 31, 2020), p. 115, available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-2020DIGEST/pdf/DCPD-2020DIGEST.pdf. 
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 16.
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 16-18.
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 21-22.
               156.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 22.
               157.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lee Chatfield (Oct. 15, 2021). Leader Shirkey did not remember
                  any specific ask from the President during the Oval Office meeting. Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 16 (One thing I do remember is that he never,
                  ever, to the best of my recollection, ever made a specific ask. It was always just
                  general topics[.]).
               158.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lee Chatfield (Oct. 15, 2021).
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 57.
               160.  Legislative Leaders Meet with President Trump, State Senator Mike Shirkey, (Nov.
                  20, 2020), available at https://www.senatormikeshirkey.com/legislative-leaders-meet-with-president-trump/. 
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lee Chatfield, (Oct. 15, 2021).
               162.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lee Chatfield, (Oct. 15, 2021).
               163.  Team Trump (Text TRUMP to 88022) (@TeamTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 9:00 a.m. ET,
                  available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103170109/https://twitter.com/TeamTrump/status/1345776940196659201 (archived).
               164.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 52; Aaron Parseghian,
                  Former Michigan Resident Slammed with Calls after Trump Campaign Mistakenly Posts
                  Number on Social Media, Fox 17 West Michigan, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.fox17online.com/news/politics/former-michigan-resident-slammed-with-calls-after-trump-campaign-mistakenly-posts-number-on-social-media.
               165.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM012414 (text to Rep. Scott
                  Perry from Meadows).
               166.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM012445 (text to Meadows
                  from Rep. Scott Perry).
               167.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022); Jake Corman and Kerry Benninghoff,
                  Pa. Lawmakers Have No Role to Play in Deciding Presidential Election, Centre Daily Times, (Oct. 19, 2020), available at https://www.centredaily.com/opinion/article246527648.html.  
               168.  Barton Gellman, The Election That Could Break America, The Atlantic, (Sept. 23, 2020), available at https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/11/what-if-trump-refuses-concede/616424/; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022); see Jake Corman, Pa. Lawmakers
                  Have No Role to Play in Deciding Presidential Election, Centre Daily Times, (Oct. 19, 2020) available at https://www.centredaily.com/opinion/article246527648.html. Senator Corman and other Pennsylvania lawmakers sent a letter to Congress in January
                  that mentioned numerous unlawful violations of State law and asked that Congress
                  delay certification of the electoral college. Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002160_00001.
                  In his informal interview with the Select Committee, however, Senator Corman acknowledged
                  that he signed the letter due to pressure he was receiving after the election, but
                  explained that he believed fraud and these types of issues should be adjudicated in
                  the courtroom, not the legislature, and, in any event, he said that he was never presented
                  with credible evidence of voter fraud. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               173.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               174.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               175.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               176.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               177.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               178.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bryan Cutler Production), B_CUTLER_0000131-0000134 (Giuliani
                  and Ellis voicemails).
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), p. 21.
               180.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), p. 21.
               181.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bryan Cutler Production), B_CUTLER_0000131 (Giuliani
                  and Ellis voicemail).
               182.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bryan Cutler Production), B_CUTLER_0000132 (Jenna Ellis
                  voicemail).
               183.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bryan Cutler Production), B_CUTLER_0000133 (Giuliani
                  voicemail).
               184.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bryan Cutler Production), B_CUTLER_0000134 (Giuliani
                  voicemail).
               185.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 42-44, 46-47. The New York Times reported that Speaker Cutler spoke with President Trump twice by phone, Cutler told
                  the Select Committee that this claim was incorrect and that he only spoke with the
                  President by phone once, followed by their second conversation on December 3rd, which
                  was in person. See Trip Gabriel, Trump Asked Pennsylvania House Speaker about Overturning His Loss, New York Times, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/08/us/politics/trump-pennsylvania-house-speaker.html; see also Amy Gardner, Josh Dawsey and Rachael Bade, Trump Asks Pennsylvania House Speaker for Help Overturning Election Results, Personally
                  Intervening in a Third State, Washington Post, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-pennsylvania-speaker-call/2020/12/07/d65fe8c4-38bf-11eb-98c4-25dc9f4987e8_story.html.
               186.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 43-44.
               187.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 26-27, 44.
               188.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 49-57; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Jake Corman,
                  (Jan. 25, 2022).
               189.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), p. 50.
               190.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 50-55.
               191.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 54-55.
               192.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 56-57.
               193.  Statement on Election Reform, Pennsylvania Senate GOP (Dec 3, 2020, accessed July 14, 2022), available at https://www.pasenategop.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/election-reform-120320.pdf.
               194.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 6, 2020 12:56 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335463148137164802.jpg (archived).
               195.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 2:51 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1336322408970559495.jpg (archived); Letter to Pennsylvanias Congressional Delegation, Pennsylvania State GOP, (Dec. 4, 2020, last accessed July 14, 2022), available at
                  http://www.pahousegop.com/Display/SiteFiles/1/2020/120420CongressElection2020B.pdf.
               196.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 60-61.
               197.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), p. 61.
               198.  Trip Gabriel, Even in Defeat, Trump Tightens Grip on State G.O.P. Lawmakers, New York Times, (Dec. 9, 2020), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/09/us/politics/trump-pennsylvania-electoral-college.html. 
               199.   Trip Gabriel, Even in Defeat, Trump Tightens Grip on State G.O.P. Lawmakers, New York Times, (Dec. 9, 2020), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/09/us/politics/trump-pennsylvania-electoral-college.html.
               200.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, White House Phone Calls, Baseless Fraud Charges: The Origins of the Arizona Election
                  Review, AZ Central, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/17/arizona-audit-trump-allies-pushed-to-undermine-2020-election/6045151001/.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, White House Phone Calls, Baseless Fraud Charges: The Origins of the Arizona Election
                  Review, AZ Central, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/17/arizona-audit-trump-allies-pushed-to-undermine-2020-election/6045151001/.  
               202.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, White House Phone Calls, Baseless Fraud Charges: The Origins of the Arizona Election
                  Review, AZ Central, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/17/arizona-audit-trump-allies-pushed-to-undermine-2020-election/6045151001/. 
               203.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, White House Phone Calls, Baseless Fraud Charges: The Origins of the Arizona Election
                  Review, AZ Central, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/17/arizona-audit-trump-allies-pushed-to-undermine-2020-election/6045151001/.  
               204.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               205.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               206.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og.  In his testimony to the Select Committee, Speaker Bowers said this appeal to party
                  loyalty occurred in that call or in a later meeting, and that the President brought
                  it up more than once.
               207.  Dillon Rosenblatt and Julia Shumway, Giuliani COVID-19 Diagnosis Closes Arizona Legislature, Arizona Capitol Times, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://azcapitoltimes.com/news/2020/12/06/giuliani-covid-19-diagnosis-closes-arizona-legislature/; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers, (Nov. 17, 2021); Vince Leach
                  (@VinceLeach), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 11:28 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/VinceLeach/status/1333991317500727298. Speaker Bowers told the Committee that Giuliani and Ellis were accompanied by Katherine
                  Friess, J. Philip Waldron, Bernard Kerik, and others. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers, (Nov. 17, 2021).
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 58-59; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Jenna Ellis, (Mar.
                  8, 2022), pp. 50-51.
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Russel Rusty Bowers, (June 19, 2022), pp. 35-36; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,  Informal Interview
                  of Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers, (Nov. 17, 2021); Speaker Bowers Addresses Calls for the Legislature to Overturn 2020 Certified Election
                  Results, Arizona State Legislature, (Dec. 4, 2020), available at https://www.azleg.gov/press/house/54LEG/2R/201204STATEMENT.pdf.
               210.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 53:00-53:40, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               211.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 53:00-53:40, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               212.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 53:00-53:40, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               213.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 53:00-53:40, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og.
               214.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 56:00-59:50, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Russell Bowers, (June 19, 2022), pp. 39-41.
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 56:00-59:50, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og.
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 56:00-59:50, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               217.  Trump Allies Leave Voicemail Messages for Maricopa County Supervisors, AZ Central, (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/videos/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/trump-allies-left-voicemail-messages-maricopa-county-supervisors-election-and-contested-results/7837919002/. 
               218.  Trump Allies Leave Voicemail Messages for Maricopa County Supervisors, AZ Central, (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/videos/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/trump-allies-left-voicemail-messages-maricopa-county-supervisors-election-and-contested-results/7837919002/.  
               219.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Clint Hickman, (Nov. 17, 2021); see also Yvonne Wingett Sanchez, We Need You to Stop the Counting: Records Detail Intense Efforts by Trump Allies to Pressure Maricopa County Supervisors,
                  AZ Central (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/records-show-trump-allies-kelli-ward-rudy-giuliani-pressed-county-officials-over-election-results/7813304002/. 
               220.  Yvonne Wingett Sanchez, Fighting for Democracy Here: Election Audit Pits Maricopa County Republicans vs. Arizona GOP, AZ Central, (May 23, 2021) available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/05/23/election-audit-pits-maricopa-county-republicans-against-arizona-gop-senators/5186141001/; see also Trump allies leave voicemail messages for Maricopa County supervisors, AZ Central, (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/videos/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/trump-allies-left-voicemail-messages-maricopa-county-supervisors-election-and-contested-results/7837919002/. 
               221.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Maricopa County Board of Supervisors Production), CTRL0000020072,
                  pp. 1-2 (December 24, 2020, copy of voice message and a transcription); see also Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, Asked to Do Something Huge: An Audacious Pitch to Reverse Arizonas Election Results, AZ Central, (Dec. 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/18/arizona-audit-rudy-giuliani-failed-effort-replace-electors/6349795001/. 
               222.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jack Sellers and Bill Gates, (Oct. 6, 2021).
               223.  Yvonne Wingett Sanchez, We Need You to Stop the Counting: Records Detail Intense Efforts by Trump Allies to Pressure Maricopa County Supervisors,
                  AZ Central, (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/records-show-trump-allies-kelli-ward-rudy-giuliani-pressed-county-officials-over-election-results/7813304002/.  
               224. Yvonne Wingett Sanchez, We Need You to Stop the Counting: Records Detail Intense Efforts by Trump Allies to Pressure Maricopa County Supervisors,
                  AZ Central, (July 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/07/02/records-show-trump-allies-kelli-ward-rudy-giuliani-pressed-county-officials-over-election-results/7813304002/.
               225.  Document on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Bill Stepien Production), WS00104-105 (December 5, 2021,
                  email from Joshua Findlay to Matthew Morgan, Justin Clark, and Bill Stepien at 11:44
                  p.m.).
               226.  Brian Kemp (@BrianKempGA), Twitter, Dec. 5, 2020 12:44 p.m., available at https://twitter.com/briankempga/status/1335278871630008324.
               227.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 5, 2020 9:35 p.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335336916582084614.jpg (archived). As detailed later in this report, the call for special sessions of legislatures
                  in various States, including Georgia, never gained traction and, when all else failed,
                  became a focus for two Department of Justice lawyers.  
               228.  Office of Governor Brian P. Kemp, Gov. Kemp, Lt. Gov. Duncan Issue Statement on Request for Special Session of General
                  Assembly, MadMimi.com, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://madmimi.com/p/50e7a11?pact=1301484-161142215-11561983238-b09ac0db7ff3f3c8bd594d6a33e7f63d0cf4c135. 
               229.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 3:07 p.m., available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201208200907/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1336401919422640128 (archived) (retweeting Lin Wood (@LLinWood), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020, 11:22 a.m., available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201208200908/https://twitter.com/LLinWood/status/1336390712380813313 (archived)).  
               230.  Brett Samuels, Trump Retweets Lawyer Who Said Republican Officials in Georgia Are Going to Jail, The Hill, (Dec. 15, 2020), available at https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/530250-trump-retweets-lawyer-who-says-republican-officials-in-georgia-are-going-to/. 
               231.  Search results for The Republican Governor of Georgia refuses | As badly as we
                  were treated in Georgia | kemp | @briankempga, from November 30 to December 31,
                  2020, Trump Twitter Archive V2, (last accessed December 12, 2022), available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22%5C%22The+Republican+Governor+of+Georgia+refuses%5C%22+%7C+%5C%22As+badly+as+we+were+treated+in+Georgia%5C%22+%7C+kemp+%7C+%40briankempga%22&amp;dates=%5B%222020-11-30%22%2C%222020-12-30%22%5D&amp;results=1.
               232.  Document on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007750_0001,
                  (December 7, 2020 email from Bill White to Dan Scavino and others) including screenshot
                  of Burt Jones (@burtjonesforga), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 11:26 a.m., available at https://twitter.com/burtjonesforga/status/1335984150789173248), available at https://twitter.com/burtjonesforga/status/1335984150789173248). 
               233.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 1:29 p.m. ET, available at https://factba.se/biden/topic/twitter?q=burtjonesforga&amp;f= (archived); Rudy W. Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 12:25 p.m., available at https://twitter.com/RudyGiuliani/status/1335998988101804035.
               234.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007693_00001.
               235.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007693_00001.
               236.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007693_00001.
               237.  David Wickert and Greg Bluestein, Inside the Campaign to Undermine Georgias Election
                  (Part I), Atlanta Journal-Constitution, (Dec. 30, 2021), available at https://www.ajc.com/politics/election/georgia-2020-election-what-happened/.  
               238.  Shepherds Sling, Steven K. Bannon - War Room Pandemic - Ep. #568/569 (Full 2hrs Podcast), BitChute, at 16:50 - 18:00, Dec. 8, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/KyK4QPP7Ngyt/; John Fredericks (@jfradioshow), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 5:30 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/jfradioshow/status/1336075668090654724; Jim Hoft, Developing: President Trump Speaks with Georgia House Speaker David Ralston and Speaker
                  Pro-Tem Jan Jones on Endorsing Special Session, Gateway Pundit, (Dec. 7, 2020), available at https://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2020/12/developing-president-trump-speaks-georgia-house-speaker-david-ralston-speaker-pro-tem-jan-jones-endorsing-special-session/.
               239.  FYNTV FetchYourNews, #BKP Has a Live Call-In with David Ralston, YouTube, at 2:30 - 3:12 (Dec. 8, 2020), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201224164814/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZdN5vNOl6F4&amp;gl=US&amp;hl=en (archived); Julie Carr, Georgia Speaker of the House David Ralston Joins BKP Politics to Discuss His Call
                  with President Trump and a Legal Path Forward, Tennessee Star, (Dec. 20, 2020), available at https://tennesseestar.com/2020/12/20/georgia-speaker-of-the-house-david-ralston-joins-bkp-politics-to-discuss-his-call-with-president-trump-and-a-legal-path-forward/. 
               240.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 162-67.
               241.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Georgia Secretary of State Production), GA SOS ORR (21-344) 005651(Dec. 23, 2020 call between President Trump and Frances Watson); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Informal Interview with
                  Frances Watson (Dec. 15, 2021); see also Georgia Secretary of State Recording of Trump Phone Call to Election Investigator,
                     American Oversight (Mar. 10, 2021), available at https://www.americanoversight.org/document/georgia-secretary-of-state-recording-of-trump-phone-call-to-election-investigator.  
               242.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014152 (December 27, 2020
                  text message at 5:18 p.m. from Mark Meadows to Jordan Fuchs).
               243.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014153 (December 27, 2020
                  text message at 5:20 p.m. from Jordan Fuchs to Mark Meadows).
               244.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM012317 (November 19, 2020
                  text message at 9:56 a.m. from Mark Meadows to Brad Raffensperger).
               245.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM013362.
               246.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM013632-33; see also Newsmax (@newsmax), Twitter, Dec. 11, 2020 9:45 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/newsmax/status/1337589238078922752.
               247.  Philip Rucker, Ashley Parker, Josh Dawsey, and Seung Min Kim, Trump Sabotaging GOP on His Way Out of Office with Push to Overturn Election, Washington Post, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-sabotage-republicans/2021/01/04/df5d301e-4eb1-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               248.  Georgia Sec. of State Discusses Phone Call with Trump About Election Results, Good Morning America, at 1:40 to 2:20, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at  https://www.goodmorningamerica.com/news/video/georgia-sec-state-discusses-phone-call-trump-election-75032599. 
               249.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing
                  the call transcript); Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               250.  Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               251.  Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               252.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing
                  the call transcript); Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html (the Washington Post redacted Freemans name and instead used [name] in the transcript);
                  Donald Trump Georgia Phone Call Transcript with Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger: Says He Wants to Find Votes, Rev, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-georgia-phone-call-transcript-brad-raffensperger-recording.  
               253. Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               254.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 8:57 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1345731043861659650.jpg (archived). The archived image is in universal time.  
               255.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 8:29 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1345723944654024706.jpg, (archived).    
               256.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               257.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 117-32; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698
                   000702 (Draft letter written by Jeffrey Clark).
               258.  Senate Committee to Discuss Election Issues in Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania Senate
                  GOP website (Nov. 24, 2020, last accessed on July 15, 2022), available at https://www.pasenategop.com/blog/senate-committee-to-discuss-election-issues-in-pennsylvania/; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 65-66. https://www.pasenategop.com/blog/senate-committee-to-discuss-election-issues-in-pennsylvania/.
               259.  Jeremy Roebuck and Andrew Seidman, Pa. GOP lawmaker Doug Mastriano says he left the Capitol area before the riot. New
                  videos say otherwise, Philadelphia Inquirer, (May 25, 2021), available at https://www.inquirer.com/news/doug-mastriano-capitol-riot-pennslyvania-video-20210525.html. 
               260.  Eric Metaxas, Interview: Eric Metaxas Interviews Donald Trump with Douglas Mastriano, Factba.se Archive, (Nov. 30, 2020), available at https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-interview-eric-metaxas-douglas-mastriano-november-30-2020; Senator Doug Mastriano (@SenMastriano), Twitter, Nov. 30, 2020 5:56 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/senmastriano/status/1333545380965986307. 
               261.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008230_0001,
                  076P-R000008231_0001 (email and attachment from Mastriano to Molly Michael); see also Kelly v. Pennsylvania, 141 S. Ct. 950 (2020) (order denying application for injunctive relief presented
                  to Justice Alito and denying referral to the full Court).
               262.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001378_00001,
                  076P-R000001379_00001.
               263.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003771_0001,
                  076P-R000003772_0001 (Dec. 21, 2020, email from Doug Mastriano to Molly Michael titled
                  Letter Requested by the President).
               264. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003771_0001,
                  076P-R000003772_0001 (Dec. 21, 2020, email from Doug Mastriano to Molly Michael titled
                  Letter requested by the President).
               265.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003748_0001,
                  076P-R000003749_0001, (Dec. 29, 2020, Doug Mastriano email to Molly Michael titled
                  Pennsylvania letter for AG Donoghue regarding election; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003753_0001, 076P-R000003754_0001, (Dec.
                  22, 2020, Molly Michael email to Rush Limbaugh titled From POTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production) 076P-R000003761_0001, 076P-R000003762_0001, (Dec. 22, 2020, Molly Michael email to
                  Pam Bondi titled From POTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production) 076P-R000003766_0001, (Dec. 21, 2020, Molly Michael email to Lou Dobbs titled 2 attachments from POTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production),
                  076P-R000008968_0001, (Jan. 1, 2021, Molly Michael email to Kevin McCarthy titled
                  From POTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archive Production) 076P-R000003759_0001, (Dec. 22, 2020, Molly Michael email to John Eastman, Justin
                  Clark, and Michael Farris titled From POTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production) 076P-R000003763_0001, (December 21, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Christopher
                  Michel re: From POTUS).
               266.  Charlotte Cuthbertson, Trump Resolved, Determined about Election, Says Pennsylvania Senator, Epoch Times (Dec. 24, 2020), available at https://www.theepochtimes.com/trump-resolved-determined-about-election-says-pennsylvania-senator_3632138.html; Marc Levy &amp; Mark Scolforo, White House Invites GOP Lawmakers in Pennsylvania to Lunch, Associated Press, (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-pennsylvania-coronavirus-pandemic-c5b7f43af7794f01f6d339b7258b915a; Jan Murphy, Pa. Senators Head to White House for Pre-Holiday Lunch with President Trump, Penn Live  Patriot-News, (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://www.pennlive.com/news/2020/12/pa-senators-head-to-white-house-for-pre-holiday-lunch-with-president-trump.html; Ep 608- Pandemic: Merry Christmas Eve Special Hour 1 (w/ Mayor Giuliani, Dr. Peter
                  K. Navarro, Major Sgt. Scotty Neil, Former Navy Seal Tej Gill, Christopher Flannery ), War Room Podcast (Dec. 24, 2020), 25:17 to 25:25, available at https://warroom.org/2020/12/24/ep-608-pandemic-merry-christmas-eve-special-hour-1-w-dr-peter-k-navarro-major-sgt-scotty-neil-former-navy-seal-tej-gill-christopher-flannery/. Charlotte Cuthbertson, Trump Resolved, Determined about Election, Says Pennsylvania Senator, Epoch Times (Dec. 24, 2020), available at https://www.theepochtimes.com/trump-resolved-determined-about-election-says-pennsylvania-senator_3632138.html; Marc Levy &amp; Mark Scolforo, White House Invites GOP Lawmakers in Pennsylvania to Lunch, Associated Press (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-pennsylvania-coronavirus-pandemic-c5b7f43af7794f01f6d339b7258b915a; Jan Murphy, Pa. Senators Head to White House for Pre-Holiday Lunch with President Trump, Penn Live  Patriot-News (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://www.pennlive.com/news/2020/12/pa-senators-head-to-white-house-for-pre-holiday-lunch-with-president-trump.html; Ep 608- Pandemic: Merry Christmas Eve Special Hour 1 (w/ Mayor Giuliani, Dr. Peter
                  K. Navarro, Major Sgt. Scotty Neil, Former Navy Seal Tej Gill, Christopher Flannery), War Room Podcast (Dec.https://warroom.org/2020/12/24/ep-608-pandemic-merry-christmas-eve-special-hour-1-w-dr-peter-k-navarro-major-sgt-scotty-neil-former-navy-seal-tej-gill-christopher-flannery/. 
               267.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008298_0001
                  (December 28, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Mark Meadows forwarding Senator Doug
                  Mastriano info for the president), 076P-R000007593_0001 (December 28, 2020, email
                  from Molly Michael to Scott Toland forwarding Senator Doug Mastriano info for the
                  president), 076P-R000003748_0001, 076P-R000003749_0001 (December 29, 2020, email and
                  attachments from Doug Mastriano to Molly Michael re: Pennsylvania letter for AG Donoghue
                  regarding election), , 076P-R000003745_0001, 076P-R000003746_0001, 076P-R000003747_0001
                  (December 31, 2020, email from Doug Mastriano to Molly Michael re: Letters requested
                  by President Trump and attachments).
               268.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003745_0001,
                  076P-R000003746_0001, 076P-R000003747_0001 (December 31, 2020, email from Doug Mastriano
                  to Molly Michael re: Letters requested by President Trump and attachments).
               269.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000003732_0001(Email
                  from Molly Michael to Amy Swonger, passing along information from Mastriano, 076P-R000008399_0001
                  (Email from Amy Swonger to Molly Michael responding)). According to the White Houses
                  Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs, Amy Swonger, the President repeatedly
                  asked for her to distribute political materials after the election, which led her
                  to seek advice from the White House Counsels Office because fulfilling the Presidents
                  request would likely violate the Hatch Act. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Amy Swonger, (Oct. 28, 2022), pp. 52-53.
               270.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007439_0001
                  (White House switchboard call log from Jan. 5, 2022).
               271.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000004788_0001,
                  076P-R000004789_0001-0066 (January 5, 2021, email from Mastriano attaching letter
                  for Vice President Pence signed by Pennsylvania legislators), 076P-R000004957_0001
                  (Molly Michael acknowledging receipt), 076P-R000005084_0001 (Molly Michael passing
                  the letter along to Marc Short), 076P-R000007338_0001 (acknowledgment that the letter
                  was printed for POTUS), 076P-R000004687_0001, 076P-R000004688_0001 (January 5, 2021,
                  email and attached letter to Molly Michael re: Caucus Letter to Sen. McConnell and
                  Rep. McCarthy).
               272.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 9:59 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;dates=%5B%222021-01-04%22%2C%222021-01-06%22%5D&amp;searchbox=%22BIG+NEWS+IN+PENNSYLVANIA%21+https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2F7JqTWYUgOr%22 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 12:46 a.m.
                  ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22pennsylvania+is+going+to+trump.+The+legislators%22 (archived).
               273.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Douglas Mastriano, (August 9, 2022), pp. 10-11.
               274. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Alex Cannon Production), AC-0000150 - 153(emails with
                  Jason Miller re: emails to PA/AZ).
               275. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Alex Cannon Production), AC-0000150 - 153 (emails with
                  Jason Miller re: emails to PA/AZ).
               276. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Alex Cannon Production), AC-0000150 - 153 (emails with
                  Jason Miller re: emails to PA/AZ).
               277. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 225-26; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Interview of Christina Bobb,
                  (Apr. 21, 2022), pp. 128-34.
               278. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001891_00001.
               279.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 138-39.
               280.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 136-37.
               281.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001890_00001,
                  076P-R000001891_00001 (December 28, 2020, email with attachment from Bernard Kerik
                  to Mark Meadows re: GIULIANI TEAM STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS PLAN - v1.pdf).
               282.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 225-27; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan.
                  13, 2022), pp. 139-140.
               283. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001891_00001.
               284. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001891_00001.
               285. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001891_00001.
               286. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Rudy Giuliani Production), RGGLOBAL_DOM_00008525.
               287.  Shepherds Sling, Steve Bannons War Room, Episode 623, BitChute, at 13:20 - 13:29, Dec. 31, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/KyK4QPP7Ngyt/. 
               288. Shepherds Sling, Steve Bannons War Room, Episode 623, BitChute, at 17:07 - 18:17, Dec. 31, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/KyK4QPP7Ngyt/.
               289. Shepherds Sling, Steve Bannons War Room, Episode 623, BitChute, at 24:49 - 25:14, Dec. 31, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/KyK4QPP7Ngyt/.
               290. Bernard B. Kerik (@BernardKerik), Twitter, Dec. 27, 2020 11:53 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/bernardkerik/status/1343238609768501253.
               291.  Bernard B. Kerik (@BernardKerik), Twitter, Dec. 13, 2020 1:05 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/bernardkerik/status/1338001989846888448. 
               292.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 43-45; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson (Mar.
                  7, 2022), pp. 184-85; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson (May
                  17, 2022), p. 74.
               293.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production),076P-R000008962_0006 (January
                  2, 2021, White House Switchboard records); Election Integrity Group Meets with Legislators from Contested States, Cision PR Newswire, (Jan. 2, 2021), available https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/election-integrity-group-meets-with-legislators-from-contested-states-301199902.html; Daniel Chaitin, Navarro: Six-Person Team Briefed Hundreds of State Lawmakers, Showed Receipts of
                  Stolen Election, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 2, 2021, updated Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/navarro-6-person-team-briefed-hundreds-of-state-lawmakers-showed-receipts-of-stolen-election.  
               294.  Team, Got Freedom?, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201202221908/https:/got-freedom.org/team/  (archived). 
               295.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ed McBroom Production), M11-12 (January 2, 2021, email
                  from Jillian Anderson, signed by Phil Kline re: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020
                  | GOT FREEDOM?); Election Integrity Group Meets with Legislators from Contested States, Cision PR Newswire, (Jan. 2, 2021), available https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/election-integrity-group-meets-with-legislators-from-contested-states-301199902.html.
               296.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ed McBroom Production), M11-12 (January 2, 2021, email
                  from Jillian Anderson, signed by Phil Kline re: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020
                  | GOT FREEDOM?); Election Integrity Group Meets with Legislators from Contested States, Cision PR Newswire, (Jan. 2, 2021), available https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/election-integrity-group-meets-with-legislators-from-contested-states-301199902.html.
               297.  Election Integrity Group Meets with Legislators from Contested States, Cision PR Newswire, (Jan. 2, 2021), available https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/election-integrity-group-meets-with-legislators-from-contested-states-301199902.html. 
               298.  Paul Bedard, Exclusive: Trump Urges State Legislators to Reject Electoral Votes, You Are the Real
                  Power, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/exclusive-trump-urges-state-legislators-to-reject-electoral-votes-you-are-the-real-power; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 99-100.
               299.  Paul Bedard, Exclusive: Trump Urges State Legislators to Reject Electoral Votes, You Are the Real
                  Power, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/exclusive-trump-urges-state-legislators-to-reject-electoral-votes-you-are-the-real-power. 
               300.  Paul Bedard, Exclusive: Trump Urges State Legislators to Reject Electoral Votes, You Are the Real
                  Power, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 3, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/exclusive-trump-urges-state-legislators-to-reject-electoral-votes-you-are-the-real-power.
               301. Daniel Chaitan, Navarro: Six-Person Team Briefed Hundreds of State Lawmakers Showed Receipts of
                  Stolen Election, Washington Examiner, (Jan. 2, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/navarro-6-person-team-briefed-hundreds-of-state-lawmakers-showed-receipts-of-stolen-election. The Select Committee attempted to ask Navarro about his participation in the call
                  and other topics, but he ignored the Select Committees subpoena and has been indicted
                  by the Department of Justice.
               302.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ed McBroom Production), M11-12 (January 2, 2021, email
                  from Jillian Anderson, signed by Phil Kline re: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020
                  | GOT FREEDOM?).
               303.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ed McBroom Production), M11-12 (January 2, 2021, email
                  from Jillian Anderson, signed by Phil Kline re: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020
                  | GOT FREEDOM?) (quoted text bolded and italicized in original).
               304.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ed McBroom Production), M11-12 (January 2, 2021, email
                  from Jillian Anderson, signed by Phil Kline re: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020
                  | GOT FREEDOM?).
               305.  Melanie Conklin, These 15 State Legislators Asked Pence Not to Certify Election Results, Wisconsin Examiner, (Jan. 14, 2021), available at https://wisconsinexaminer.com/2021/01/14/these-15-state-legislators-asked-pence-not-to-certify-election-results/.  
               306.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production Production), 076P-R000005084_0001
                  (January 5, 2021, email from Doug Mastriano to Molly Michael re: Final letter to VP
                  Pence, attaching the letter signed); Documents on file with the Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives
                  Production Production), 076P-R000008735_0001 (January 5, 2021, letter to Vice President
                  Pence signed by state legislators with The President Has Seen stamp).
               307.  Wood TV8, Giuliani and Laura Cox Hold Legal Briefing Before Giving Testimony Wednesday Evening, Facebook Watch, at 10:30-10:45, Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.facebook.com/woodtv/videos/rudy-giuliani-and-laura-cox-hold-legal-briefing-before-giving-testimony-wednesda/1996033023872394/.
               308.  Wood TV8, Giuliani and Laura Cox Hold Legal Briefing Before Giving Testimony Wednesday Evening, Facebook Watch, at 13:05-13:20, Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.facebook.com/woodtv/videos/rudy-giuliani-and-laura-cox-hold-legal-briefing-before-giving-testimony-wednesda/1996033023872394/.
               309. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 33, 37, &amp; 47-48. Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               310. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 33-38.
               311.  Senator Mike Shirkey (@SenMikeShirkey), Twitter, Nov. 22, 2020 10:47 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/SenMikeShirkey/status/1330538438723063815.  
               312.  Shirkey Issues Statement Regarding Election, Michigan Senate GOP, (from text, December
                  14, 2020), available at https://www.misenategop.com/shirkey-issues-statement-regarding-election/.
               313.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 4, 2020 2:49 p.m. ET, available at
                  http://web.archive.org/web/20201211204139/https:/twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1334993249082236931 (archived). 
               314.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) RT of Christina Bobb (@christina_bobb) QT of Ali
                  #StopTheSteal Alexander (@ali), Twitter, Dec. 6, 2020 12:53 a.m. ET, available at
                  https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335462365370994689.jpg (archived); Tweets of December 6, 2020, The American Presidency Project at University of California
                  Santa Barbara, https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-december-6-2020. 
               315. Team Trump, Facebook, Dec. 24, 2020 1:52 p.m., available at https://www.facebook.com/officialteamtrump/videos/arizona-contact-governor-ducey-and-your-legislators-todaydemand-they-hear-the-ev/303213471090533/.
               316. Team Trump, Facebook, Dec. 26, 2020 5:36 p.m., available at https://www.facebook.com/officialteamtrump/videos/arizona-contact-governor-ducey-and-your-legislators-today/3496886293698026/.
               317.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jamestown Associates Production), JTA000074-81(Dec.
                  20, 2020, email chain from Jason Miller).
               318.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jamestown Associates Production), JTA000074-81(Dec.
                  20, 2020, email chain from Jason Miller).
               319.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jared Kushner Production), JK_00423-436 (Dec. 22, 2020, text messages between Jason Miller and Jared Kushner, pp. 10-13).
               320.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, , Dec. 1, 2020 10:27 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201203173245/https://mobile.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333975991518187521 (archived).
               321.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 5, 2020 10:33 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335351633459310593.jpg (archived).
               322.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 3:37 p.m. UTC, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335971721262796801.jpg (archived).
               323.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 7, 2020 7:50 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1336110929856040960.jpg (archived).
               324.  Donald Trump Thanksgiving Call to Troops Transcript 2020: Addresses Possibility of
                  Conceding Election, Rev, (Nov. 26, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-thanksgiving-call-to-troops-transcript-2020-addresses-possibility-of-conceding-election.  
               325.  Linda So and Jason Szep, Campaign of Fear: U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help from Law Enforcement as Terror
                  Threats Mount, Reuters, (Sept. 8, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/.
               326.  Fredreka Schouten, Personal Threats, Election Lies and Punishing New Laws Rattle Election Officials,
                  Raising Fears of a Mass Exodus, CNN, (July 21, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/07/21/politics/election-officials-exodus/index.html. 
               327.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) RT of Christina Bobb (@christina_bobb) QT of Ali
                  #StopTheSteal Alexander (@ali), Twitter, Dec. 6, 2020 12:53 a.m. ET, available at
                  https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1335462365370994689.jpg (archive); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 6, 2020 12:53 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22rusty+bowers%22&amp;dates=%5B%222020-11-29%22%2C%222020-12-29%22%5D&amp;results=1 (archived) (retweeting Christina Bobb).
               328.  Dennis Welch (@dennis_welch), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 11:23 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dennis_welch/status/1336526978640302080
                  (retweeting people who were posting Bowerss personal information); Dennis Welch (@dennis_welch), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 11:28
                  p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dennis_welch/status/1336528029791604737.  
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview with Russel Rusty Bowers (June 19, 2022), pp. 50-52; Kelly Weill, Arizona GOP Civil War Somehow Keeps Getting Weirder, Daily Beast, (Dec. 11, 2020), available at https://www.thedailybeast.com/arizona-republican-party-civil-war-somehow-keeps-getting-weirder; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, Asked to do Something Huge: An Audacious Pitch to Reserve Arizonas Election Results, Arizona Republic, (Nov. 18, 2021, updated Dec. 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/18/arizona-audit-rudy-giuliani-failed-effort-replace-electors/6349795001/.
               330.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview with Russel Rusty Bowers (June 19, 2022), pp. 50-52.
               331.  House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview with Russel Rusty Bowers (June 19, 2022), pp. 50-52.
               332.  Brahm Resnik, VIDEO: Group chants We are watching you outside Arizona Secretary
                  of State Katie Hobbs home, KPNX 12 News, (Nov. 18, 2020), available at https://www.12news.com/article/news/politics/video-group-chants-we-are-watching-you-outside-arizona-secretary-of-state-katie-hobbs-home/75-a569ae35-3b62-424e-88f8-f03ca8b89458; Arizona Sec. of State Says She Hays Received Threats of Violence Following Election, Fox 10 Phoenix, (Nov. 18, 2020, updated Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/arizona-sec-of-state-says-she-has-received-threats-of-violence-following-election; Brahm Resnik, Arizona Law Enforcement Investigating Social Media Threat against Top Elections Official, KPNX 12 News, (Nov. 18, 2020), available at https://www.12news.com/article/news/local/arizona/arizona-law-enforcement-investigating-social-media-threat-against-top-elections-official/75-486474ea-11c9-47ad-a325-8bbed6e3e231.  
               333.  Arizona Sec. of State Says She Hays Received Threats of Violence Following Election, Fox 10 Phoenix, (Nov. 18, 2020, updated Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/arizona-sec-of-state-says-she-has-received-threats-of-violence-following-election; Brahm Resnik, Arizona Law Enforcement Investigating Social Media Threat against Top Elections Official, KPNX 12 News, (Nov. 18, 2020), available at https://www.12news.com/article/news/local/arizona/arizona-law-enforcement-investigating-social-media-threat-against-top-elections-official/75-486474ea-11c9-47ad-a325-8bbed6e3e231.  
               334.  Isaac Dovere and Jeremy Herb, Its Absolutely Getting Worse: Secretaries of State Targeted by Trump Election Lies
                  Live in Fear for their Safety and are Desperate for Protection, CNN, (Oct. 26, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/26/politics/secretaries-of-state-personal-threats-trump-election-lies/index.html; Michael Wines and Eliza Fawcett, Violent Threats to Election Workers are Common. Prosecutions are Not, New York Times, (June 27, 2022, updated July 1, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/27/us/election-workers-safety.html.  
               335.  Committee on House Administration, Election Subversion: A Growing Threat to Election
                  Integrity, Statement of Adrian Fontes Maricopa County Recorder (2016-2020), at *1,
                  6 (July 28, 2020), available at https://docs.house.gov/meetings/HA/HA00/20210728/113971/HHRG-117-HA00-Wstate-FontesA-20210728.pdf. 
               336.  Bob Christie, Months after Biden Win, Arizona Officials Still Face Threats, Associated Press, (Feb. 12, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/joe-biden-donald-trump-arizona-phoenix-elections-2bd2306acb2ae89c0ef37182fbb415b7. 
               337.  Nicole Valdes, Online Death Threats Target Maricopa County Board of Supervisors, ABC 15 Arizona, (Jan. 8, 2021, updated Jan. 9, 2021), available at https://www.abc15.com/news/state/enough-is-enough-online-death-threats-target-maricopa-county-board-of-supervisors.
               338.  Washington Post, The Arizona election official who faced death threats for telling the truth, YouTube, at 0:21, Nov. 2, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6gAc47ivjYk. 
               339.  Genesis Sandoval, Hickman: A Year after 2020 Elections, Threats, Abuse Still Coming In, Cronkite News Arizona PBS, (Nov. 2, 2021), available at https://cronkitenews.azpbs.org/2021/11/02/hickman-a-year-after-2020-elections-threats-abuse-still-coming-in/. 
               340. United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Hearing on Protecting our Democracys
                  Frontline Workers (Aug. 3, 2022), Written testimony by Jocelyn Benson, available at
                  https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Testimony%20-%20Benson.pdf; Michigan Department of State, Statement from Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson
                  Concerning Threats against Her and Her Family, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/Resources/News/2020/12/06/statement-from-secretary-of-state-jocelyn-benson-concerning-threats-against-her-and-her-family; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jocelyn Benson, (June 2, 2022), pp. 35-39.
               341.  Michigan Department of State, Statement from Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson Concerning
                  Threats against Her and Her Family, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/Resources/News/2020/12/06/statement-from-secretary-of-state-jocelyn-benson-concerning-threats-against-her-and-her-family; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Jocelyn Benson (June
                  2, 2022), pp. 35-39.
               342.  Isaac Dovere and Jeremy Herb, Its Absolutely Getting Worse: Secretaries of State
                  Targeted by Trump Election Lies Live in Fear for their Safety and are Desperate for
                  Protection, CNN, (Oct. 26, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/26/politics/secretaries-of-state-personal-threats-trump-election-lies/index.html.
               343. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Aaron Van Langevelde and
                  Adrianne Van Langevelde, (Oct. 21, 2021); Tim Alberta, The Inside Story of Michigans
                  Fake Voter Fraud Scandal, Politico, (Nov. 24, 2020), available at https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2020/11/24/michigan-election-trump-voter-fraud-democracy-440475; Rod Meloni and Natasha Dado, Michigan AG Launches Investigation into Threats against
                  Canvassers, Click on Detroit, (Nov. 24, 2020), available at https://www.clickondetroit.com/news/local/2020/11/24/michigan-ag-launches-investigation-into-threats-against-canvassers/.
               344.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Aaron Van Langevelde, (Oct. 21, 2021).
               345.  Trey Grayson, Matthew Masterson, Orion Danjuma, and Ben Berwick, State and Local
                  Solutions Are Integral to Protect Election Officials and Democracy, Just Security,
                  (Feb. 9, 2022), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/80142/state-and-local-solutions-are-integral-to-protect-election-officials-and-democracy/; Stanford Internet Observatory, Tina Barton  Aftermath  Death Threats, YouTube,
                  (Sept. 20, 2021), available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xi5Y7bwvy-Y. 
               346.  Melissa Nann Burke and George Hunter, I Feel Afraid: Detroit Clerk Winfrey Testifies
                  to U.S. House Panel on Death Threats She Received, Detroit News, (July 28, 2021), available at https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/2021/07/28/winfrey-testifies-before-house-panel-threats-election-workers/5400419001/. 
               347.  Linda So and Jason Szep, Campaign of Fear: U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help
                  from Law Enforcement as Terror Threats Mount, Reuters, (Sept. 8, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/.
               348.  Dave Boucher, Black Michigan Lawmaker Posts Voicemails Saying She Should be Lynched,
                  Detroit Free Press, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/12/06/michigan-lawmaker-posts-voicemails-saying-she-should-lynched/3849695001/. 
               349.  Dave Boucher, Black Michigan Lawmaker Posts Voicemails Saying She Should be Lynched,
                  Detroit Free Press, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/12/06/michigan-lawmaker-posts-voicemails-saying-she-should-lynched/3849695001/. 
               350.  Kayla Clarke, Man faces felony charges for bomb threat at Michigan Capitol Building,
                  threats against state representative, Click on Detroit, (Jan. 8, 2021), available at https://www.clickondetroit.com/news/local/2021/01/08/man-faces-felony-charges-for-bomb-threat-at-michigan-capitol-building-threats-against-state-representative/ (linking to affidavit).
               351.  Isaac Dovere and Jeremy Herb, Its Absolutely Getting Worse: Secretaries of State
                  Targeted by Trump Election Lies Live in Fear for their Safety and are Desperate for
                  Protection, CNN, (Oct. 26, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/26/politics/secretaries-of-state-personal-threats-trump-election-lies/index.html; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Kathy Boockvar, (Dec. 22, 2021).
               352.  Linda So and Jason Szep, Campaign of Fear: U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help from Law Enforcement as Terror
                  Threats Mount, Reuters, (Sept. 8, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/.  
               353.  Isaac Dovere and Jeremy Herb, Its Absolutely Getting Worse: Secretaries of State Targeted by Trump Election Lies
                  Live in Fear for their Safety and are Desperate for Protection, CNN, (Oct. 26, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/26/politics/secretaries-of-state-personal-threats-trump-election-lies/index.html. 
               354. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Bryan Cutler, (May 31, 2022), pp. 83-84.
               355.  Geoff Rushton, Police Investigating Threat Made During State College Borough Council Meeting, StateCollege.com, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://www.statecollege.com/police-investigating-threat-made-during-state-college-borough-council-meeting/. 
               356.  Jan Murphy, Meet Pa. Senate GOP Leader Kim Ward, the First Woman to Hold That Post: I Have To
                  Do a Good Job, PennLive.com, (Jan. 26, 2021), https://www.pennlive.com/news/2021/01/meet-pa-senate-gop-leader-kim-ward-the-first-woman-to-hold-that-post-i-have-to-do-a-good-job.html.  
               357.  Matt Petrillo, Were Coming after You: Philadelphia Elections Officials Still Receiving Death Threats
                  Following 2020 Presidential Election, CBS Philly 3, (Nov. 1, 2021), available at https://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/2021/11/01/philadelphia-election-officials-death-threat-donald-trump-joe-biden/; Linda So and Jason Szep, Campaign of Fear: U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help
                  from Law Enforcement as Terror Threats Mount, Reuters, (Sept. 8, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/. 
               358.  Linda So and Jason Szep, Special Report: Terrorized U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help from Law Enforcement, Reuters, (Sept. 8, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/terrorized-us-election-workers-get-little-help-law-enforcement-2021-09-08/.  
               359.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 2:10:00 to 2:11:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og. 
               360.  Linda So, Special Report: Trump-Inspired Death Threats are Terrorizing Election Workers, Reuters, (June 11, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-georgia-threats-special-rep/special-report-trump-inspired-death-threats-are-terrorizing-election-workers-idUSKCN2DN14M.  
               361.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 2:10:00 to 2:11:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Linda So, Special Report: Trump-Inspired Death Threats are Terrorizing Election
                  Workers, Reuters, (June 11, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-georgia-threats-special-rep/special-report-trump-inspired-death-threats-are-terrorizing-election-workers-idUSKCN2DN14M.  
               362.  Jeff Pegues and Robert Legare, Texas Man Charged with Making Election-Related Threats to Georgia Government Officials, CBS News, (Jan. 21, 2022), available at https://www.cbsnews.com/news/chad-christopher-stark-charged-election-related-threats-georgia-government-officials/. 
               363.  Linda So, Special Report: Trump-Inspired Death Threats are Terrorizing Election
                  Workers, Reuters, (June 11, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-georgia-threats-special-rep/special-report-trump-inspired-death-threats-are-terrorizing-election-workers-idUSKCN2DN14M. 
               364. Linda So, Special Report: Trump-Inspired Death Threats are Terrorizing Election Workers, Reuters, (June 11, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-georgia-threats-special-rep/special-report-trump-inspired-death-threats-are-terrorizing-election-workers-idUSKCN2DN14M.
               365.  Linda So, Special Report: Trump-Inspired Death Threats are Terrorizing Election Workers, Reuters (June 11, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-georgia-threats-special-rep/special-report-trump-inspired-death-threats-are-terrorizing-election-workers-idUSKCN2DN14M.
               366.  GA House Mobile Streaming, Governmental Affairs 12.10.20, Vimeo  Livestream, at 2:09:00-2:13:00, available at https://livestream.com/accounts/25225474/events/9117221/videos/214677184; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 2:25:45 to 2:26:00, available at https://youtu.be/xa43_z_82Og?t=8745. 
               367.  Donald Trump Georgia Rally Transcript Before Senate Runoff Elections December 5,
                  Rev, (Dec. 5, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-georgia-rally-transcript-before-senate-runoff-elections-december-5; Jason Szep and Linda So, A Reuters Special Report: Trump Campaign Demonized Two Georgia Election Workers 
                  and Death Threats Followed, Reuters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-georgia/. 
               368.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing
                  the call transcript); Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi,Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html (the Washington Post redacted Freemans name and instead used [name] in the transcript);
                  Donald Trump Georgia Phone Call Transcript with Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger: Says He Wants to Find Votes, Rev, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-georgia-phone-call-transcript-brad-raffensperger-recording.
               369.  Jason Szep and Linda So, A Reuters Special Report: Trump Campaign Demonized Two Georgia Election Workers 
                  and Death Threats Followed, Reuters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-georgia/.
               370. Freeman v. Giuliani, No. 21-cv-03354-BAH (D.D.C. filed May 10, 2022), ECF No. 22 (Amended Complaint at
                  52), available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61642105/22/freeman-v-herring-networks-inc.
               371.  Jason Szep and Linda So, A Reuters Special Report: Trump Campaign Demonized Two
                  Georgia Election Workers  and Death Threats Followed, Reuters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-georgia/. 
               372.  Jason Szep and Linda So, A Reuters Special Report: Trump Campaign Demonized Two
                  Georgia Election Workers  and Death Threats Followed, Reuters, (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-georgia/.
               373.  Amended Complaint at 52, Freeman v. Giuliani, No. 21-cv-03354-BAH (D.D.C. filed May 10, 2022), ECF No. 22, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61642105/22/freeman-v-herring-networks-inc.
               374.  Amended Complaint at 52, Freeman v. Giuliani, No. 21-cv-03354-BAH (D.D.C. filed May 10, 2022), ECF No. 22, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61642105/22/freeman-v-herring-networks-inc. 
               375.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ruby Freeman, (May 31, 2022), pp. 7-8.
               376.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ruby Freeman, (May 31, 2022), pp. 7-8.
               377.  Governments Motion Regarding Anticipated Trial Evidence and Notice Pursuant to Federal
                  Rule of Evidence 404(b) at 1-2, 24-26, United States v. Rhodes, et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. July 8, 2022), ECF No. 187; Brandi Buchman (@Brandi_Buchman),
                  Twitter, Oct. 6, 2022 7:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/Brandi_Buchman/status/1577983997711421441.
               378.  Hannah Rabinowitz and Holmes Lybrand, Judge Says Oath Keepers Jury Wont See Death
                  List, CNN (Oct. 6, 2022), https://www.cnn.com/2022/10/06/politics/judge-says-oath-keepers-jury-wont-see-death-list-trial-day-3.
            
         
         
         
            
                  Georgia Electors cast their Electoral College votes at the Georgia State Capitol on
                     December 14, 2020.
                  (Photo by Jessica McGowan/Getty Images)
