            7
            187 MINUTES OF DERELICTION
            At 1:10 p.m. on January 6th, President Trump concluded his speech at the Ellipse.
               By that time, the attack on the U.S. Capitol had already begun. But it was about to
               get much worse. The President told thousands of people in attendance to march down
               Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol. He told them to fight like hell because if they
               didnt, they were not going to have a country anymore. Not everyone who left the
               Ellipse did as the Commander-in-Chief ordered, but many of them did. The fighting
               intensified during the hours that followed.1
            By 1:21 p.m., President Trump was informed that the Capitol was under attack. He could
               have interceded immediately. But the President chose not to do so. It was not until
               4:17 p.m. that President Trump finally tweeted a video in which he told the rioters
               to go home.
            The 187 minutes between the end of President Trumps speech and when he finally told
               the mob to leave the U.S. Capitol was a dereliction of duty. In the U.S. military,
               a service member is deemed to be derelict in the performance of duties when that
               person willfully or negligently fails to perform that persons duties or when that
               person performs them in a culpably inefficient manner.2 As Commander-in-Chief, President Trump had the powermore than any other Americanto
               muster the U.S. Governments resources and end the attack on the U.S. Capitol. He
               willfully remained idle even as others, including his own Vice President, acted.
            President Trump could have called top officials at the Department of Justice, the
               Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, the F.B.I., the Capitol
               Police Department, or the DC Mayors Office to ensure that they quelled the violence.
               He made no such calls. Instead, President Trump reached out to Rudolph Giuliani and
               friendly Members of Congress, seeking their assistance in delaying the joint session
               of Congress. And the President tweeted at 2:24 p.m., at the height of the violence,
               that his own Vice President lacked the courage to acta statement that could only
               further enrage the mob. Meanwhile, Vice President Michael Pence assumed the duties
               of the President, requesting the assistance of top officials, even though he was not
               in the chain of command and had no constitutional power to issue orders.
            In testimony before the Select Committee, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General
               Mark Milley explained that President Trump did [n]othing, [z]ero to marshal the
               Governments resources during the assault on the U.S. Capitol.3 In contrast, Vice President Pence had two or three calls with General Milley and
               other military officialseven as the mob hunted him. During those calls, Vice President
               Pence was very animated and issued very explicit, very direct, unambiguous orders.
               The Vice President told Acting Secretary of Defense Chris Miller to get the military
               down here, get the [National] [G]uard down here, and put down this situation.4 President Trump could have made those same demands.  He chose not to do soa damning
               fact that President Trumps own Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, quickly tried to cover
               up.
            We have to kill the narrative that the Vice President is making all the decisions,
               General Milley recalled Meadows as saying. We need to establish the narrative, you
               know, that the President is still in charge and that things are steady or stable,
               Meadows said, which General Milley described as a [r]ed flag.5  In his testimony, General Milley also reflected on what it meant for a President
               not to be taking action in a time of crisis:
            You know, youre the Commander in Chief. Youve got an assault going on on the Capitol
               of the United States of America, and theres nothing?  No call?  Nothing?  Zero? And
               its not my place to, you know, pass judgment orIm the, you knowbut no attempt
               to call the Secretary of Defense?  No attempt to call the Vice President of the United
               States of America, whos down on the scene?  To my knowledge, it wasntI just noted
               it.6
            President Trumps closest advisorsboth inside and out of the White Houseimplored
               him to act sooner. Earlier in the week, two of the Presidents most trusted aides,
               Eric Herschmann and Hope Hicks, both wanted President Trump to emphasize that January
               6th would be a peaceful protest. President Trump refused.7
            On the 6th, as the riot began to escalate, a colleague texted Hicks and wrote, Hey, I know youre seeing this. But he really should tweet something about Being NON-violent.8  Im not there, Hicks replied. I suggested it several times Monday and Tuesday
               and he refused.9
            Once the attack was underway, President Trump initially ignored the counsel of his
               own family, members of his administration, Republican elected officials, and friendly
               Fox News personalities. Both Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump, Jr. wanted their father
               to tell the rioters to go home sooner. The President delayed. At 2:38 p.m., President
               Trump sent this tweet: Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They
               are truly on the side of our Country. Stay peaceful!10 Sarah Matthews, the White House Deputy Press Secretary, told the Select Committee
               that President Trump resisted using the word peaceful. The President added the words
               Stay peaceful! only after Ivanka Trump suggested the phrase.11 Trump, Jr. quickly recognized that his fathers tweet was insufficient. Hes got
               to condem [sic] this shit. Asap. The captiol [sic] police tweet is not enough, Trump,
               Jr. wrote in a text to White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.12 President Trump did not tell the rioters to disperse in either his 2:38 p.m. tweet,
               or another tweet at 3:13 p.m.13
            Multiple witnesses told the Select Committee that Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy contacted
               the President and others around him, desperately trying to get him to act. McCarthys
               entreaties led nowhere. I guess theyre just more upset about the election theft
               than you are, President Trump told McCarthy.14 Top lawyers in the White House Counsels Office attempted to intercede. Two Fox News
               primetime personalities, always so obsequious, begged those around the President to
               get him to do more. But President Trump was unmoved.
            Theres no question that President Trump had the power to end the insurrection. He
               was not only the Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. military, but also of the rioters.
            One member of the mob, Stephen Ayres, told the Select Committee that he and others
               quickly complied as soon as President Trump finally told them to go home. [W]e literally
               left right after [President Trumps 4:17 p.m. video] come out. You know, to me if
               he would have done that earlier in the day, 1:30 [p.m.] . . . maybe we wouldnt be
               in this bad of a situation or something, Ayres said.15 Another rioter, Jacob Chansley, commonly referred to as the QAnon Shaman, was one
               of the first 30 rioters to enter the U.S. Capitol. Chansley told a reporter that he
               left the building because Trump asked everybody to go home.16 At 4:25 p.m., just eight minutes after President Trump tweeted his video, an Oath
               Keeper named Ed Vallejo messaged other members of his group, a fair number of whom
               were at the Capitol: Gentleman [sic], Our Commander-in-Chief has just ordered us
               to go home. Comments?17
            
                  President Trump appears on a monitor in the White House briefing room depicting a
                     video he released instructing rioters to go home.
                  (Photo by Joshua Roberts/Getty Images)
               
            
            Even then, President Trump did not disavow the rioters. He endorsed their cause, openly
               sympathized with them, and repeated his Big Lie once again. I know your pain, I know
               youre hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us, President Trump said at
               the beginning of his 4:17 p.m. video. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows
               it, especially the other side. But you have to go home now. We have to have peace.
               We have to have law and order. We have to respect our great people in law and order.
               We dont want anybody hurt. The President portrayed the violence as something his
               political foes would use against him, saying: This was a fraudulent election, but
               we cant play into the hands of these people.18
            The President concluded his short video by again praising the men and women who had
               overrun the U.S. Capitol. We have to have peace. So go home. We love you. Youre
               very special, President Trump said. Youve seen what happens. You see the way others
               are treated that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel, but go home, and go
               home in peace.19
            Just after 6:00 p.m. on January 6th, President Trump issued his final tweet of the
               day, again lauding the rioters and justifying their cause. President Trump made excuses
               for the riot, saying this is what happens when a sacred landslide election victory
               is so unceremoniously &amp; viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been
               badly &amp; unfairly treated for so long. The President added: Go home with love &amp; in
               peace. Remember this day forever!20
            The following day, President Trumps advisors encouraged him to deliver a short speech
               denouncing the attack on the U.S. Capitol. The President struggled to deliver his
               prepared remarks. According to Cassidy Hutchinson, President Trump wanted to say that
               he would pardon the rioters. Lawyers in the White House Counsels Office objected,
               so this language was not included.21 John McEntee, the Director of the White House Presidential Personnel Office, also
               testified that in the days following the attack, he heard President Trump mention
               the possibility of a blanket pardon for all those involved in the events of January
               6th.22
            President Trump never did give up on the prospect. Since leaving office, the now former
               President has said he would consider full pardons with an apology to many of the
               January 6th defendants if he is reelected.23
            7.1 Reinsert the Mike Pence Lines
            President Trump tweeted three times on the morning of January 6th, repeating a false
               claim of election fraud at 8:06 a.m.,24 pressuring Vice President Pence to delay the electoral count at 8:17 a.m.,25 and urging Republican party officials to do the same at 8:22 a.m.26 He made calls to his Republican allies in Congress, many of whom were already committed
               to objecting to the electoral count.27 And he dialed his lawyers and advisorsincluding Steve Bannon and Rudolph Giuliani
               (twice), both of whom had been counseling the President on how to stay in power.28
            There was one personcritical to his planwhom President Trump tried to reach but
               couldnt. At 9:02 a.m., he asked the switchboard operator to call his Vice President.
               Vice President Pence did not answer the call.29
            
                  President Trump speaks with speechwriter Stephen Miller about his Ellipse speech in
                     the Oval Office on the morning of January 6, 2021.
                  (Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            Instead, between 9:52 a.m. and 10:18 a.m., the President spoke with his speechwriter,
               Stephen Miller, about the words he would deliver at the Save America Rally just hours
               later.30 The former Presidents speech had come together over the course of 36 hours, going
               from a screed aimed at encouraging congressional objections to one that would ultimately
               incite mob violence.31
            Only four minutes after the call concluded, at 10:22 a.m., Miller emailed revisions
               to the speechwriters, instructing them to [s]tart inputting these changes asap that
               included red highlights marking POTUS edits.32 The President had made some cosmetic additions, like peppering in the word corrupt
               throughout,33 but there was one substantive edita new targetthat would focus the crowds anger
               on one man.
            None of the preceding drafts mentioned Vice President Pence whatsoever. But now, at
               the very last minute, President Trump slipped in the following sentences calling the
               Vice President out by name:
            Today, we will see whether Republicans stand strong for the integrity of our elections.
               And we will see whether Mike Pence enters history as a truly great and courageous
               leader. All he has to do is refer the illegally-submitted electoral votes back to
               the states that were given false and fraudulent information where they want to recertify.
               With only 3 of the 7 states in question we win and become President and have the power
               of the veto.34
            No one on the speechwriting team could explain why President Trump added these lines
               just 30 minutes before he was originally scheduled to speak at 11:00 a.m.35 But by 10:49 a.m., Vincent Haley, a speechwriter who was helping load the teleprompter
               at the Ellipse, was told to hold off and delete the mention of the Vice Presidentfor
               now.36 Miller said that Eric Herschmann, a lawyer who was one of the Presidents senior
               advisors, asked him in a brief sidebar that morning to omit reference to the Vice
               President and his role in the certification process because he didnt concur with
               the legal analysis and that it wouldnt advance the ball but would be counterproductive
               instead.37 As detailed in Chapter 5, Herschmann and others in the White House were vocal critics
               of Dr. John Eastmans theory, which claimed that the Vice President had the unilateral
               power to reject electors during the joint session of Congress. President Trump repeatedly
               pressured Pence to either reject certified electors, or delay the electoral count
               based on Eastmans unconstitutional and illegal theory. Vice President Pence would
               not budge. The Vice President consistently rejected President Trumps demands.
            After tweeting four more times that morningall of them spreading lies about the election38the President apparently thought he had one last chance to convince his number two
               to overrule the will of the American people.
            
                  President Trump on a phone call with Vice President Mike Pence in the Oval Office
                     on the morning of January 6, 2021.
                  (Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            As recounted in Chapter 5, President Trump called Vice President Pence at 11:17 a.m.39 The call between the two menduring which the President soon grew frustrat[ed] or
               heated,40 visibly upset,41 and angry42lasted nearly 20 minutes.43 And President Trump insulted Vice President Pence when he refused to obstruct or
               delay the joint session.
            After that call, General Keith Kellogg said that the people in the room immediately
               went back to editing the Ellipse speech.44 At 11:30 a.m., Miller emailed his assistant, Robert Gabriel, with no text in the
               body but the subject line: insertstand by for phone call.45 At 11:33 a.m., Gabriel emailed the speechwriting team: REINSERT THE MIKE PENCE LINES.
               Confirm receipt.46 One minute later, speechwriter Ross Worthington confirmed that he had reached Vincent
               Haley by phone.47 Haley corroborated that he added one tough sentence about the Vice President while
               he was at the teleprompter.48
            The final written draft had the following Pence reference: And we will see whether
               Mike Pence enters history as a truly great and courageous leader.49 Haley wasnt confident that line was what he reinserted, but email traffic and teleprompter
               drafts produced by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) indicate
               that he was mistaken.50
            After defying President Trumps pressure, Vice President Penceand the ire of the
               President he inspiredwas back in the speech.
            After the heated call, President Trumps personal assistant Nicholas Luna handed him
               a message on White House card stock and the President departed for the Ellipse to
               give his speech.51 Preserved by NARA, the message read: THEY ARE READY FOR YOU WHEN YOU ARE.52 When it finally came time for him to speak, President Trump repeatedly directed his
               anger at Vice President Penceoften ad-libbing lines that were not included in the
               draft text.
            7.2 Ill Be There With You
            
                  President Trump looks backstage at the crowd gathered at the Ellipse.
                  (Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            From a tent backstage at the Ellipse, President Trump looked out at the crowd of approximately
               53,000 supporters and became enraged. Just under half of those gathereda sizeable
               stretch of about 25,000 people53refused to walk through the magnetometers and be screened for weapons,54 leaving the venue looking half-empty to the television audience at home.
            According to testimony received by the Committee, earlier that morning at the White
               House, the President was told that the onlookers were unwilling to pass through the
               magnetometers because they were armed. We have enough space, sir. They dont want
               to come in right now, Deputy Chief of Staff Tony Ornato reportedly told President
               Trump. They have weapons that they dont want confiscated by the Secret Service.55
            So, when President Trump got to the rally site and could see the crowd for himself,
               [h]e was fucking furious, as Cassidy Hutchinson later texted Ornato.56 Hutchinson testified that just minutes before addressing the crowd, President Trump
               shouted to his advance team: I dont [fucking] care that they have weapons. Theyre
               not here to hurt me. Take the [fucking] mags away. Let my people in. They can march to the Capitol from
               here. Take the [fucking] mags away.57
            By noon, President Trump took to the stage at the Ellipse.58 The President wanted all of those in attendance, including those who hadnt passed
               through the magnetometers, to come closer to the stage. And Id love to have if those
               tens of thousands of people would be allowed, President Trump said. But Id love
               it if they could be allowed to come up here with us. Is that possible? Can you just
               let [them] come up, please?59
            President Trump repeatedly made it clear to those around him in the days before January
               6th that he wanted to march to the Capitol alongside his supporters. That is, President
               Trump wanted to join his supporters in what the Secret Service refers to as an off-the-record
               movement (OTR).
            While the President spoke, Hutchinson texted Ornato, He also kept mentioning OTR
               to Capitol before he took the stage.60 Minutes before the President stepped out, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows assured the
               President he was working on it.61
            President Trumps plan to march appeared once in an early draft of the script, then
               a later revision was made to add the word building after Capitol, making it clear
               exactly where the crowd should go.62 And the President repeatedly told the crowd that he would join them.
            [A]fter this, were going to walk down, and Ill be there with you, were going to
               walk down, were going to walk down, he said to the crowd. [W]ere going to walk
               down to the Capitol, and were going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen
               and women, and were probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them.63
            President Trump used the phrase scripted for him by his White House speechwriters,
               peacefully and patriotically once, about 20 minutes into his speech.64  Then he spent the next 50-or-so minutes amping up his crowd with lies about the
               election, attacking his own Vice President and Republican Members of Congress, and
               exhorting the crowd to fight. And we fight. We fight like hell the President said
               to a crowd that had already spent the day chanting, Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!,
               and that would keep up the chorus when storming the Capitol.65
            Finally, he told the crowd where to go to take back our country: So were going
               to, were going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue. I love Pennsylvania Avenue. And
               were going to the Capitol, and were going to try and give . . . were going to try
               and give our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones dont need any of
               our help. Were going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they
               need to take back our country. So lets walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.66
            When the President announced his intentions from the microphone, people listened.
            House Republican Leader Representative. Kevin McCarthy called Hutchinson mid-speech:67
            Do you guys think youre coming to my office[?] he asked her.68 She assured him that they werent coming at all.69 
            Figure it out. Dont come up here, he replied.70
            The announcement from the stage put the Secret Service on alert, prompting agents
               to designate over email a last-minute response team to filter in with the crowds
               on the Presidents walk/motorcade over to the Capitol and establish an emergency
               plan if things go south.71  White House security officials were monitoring the situation in real time, remarking
               that President Trump was going to the Capitol and that they are finding the best
               route now.72 Nonetheless, these staffers were in a state of shock,73 because they knewparticularly if the President joinedthis would no longer [be]
               a rally.74
            [W]e all knew . . . that this was going to move to something else if he physically
               walked to the Capitol, an employee said. I dont know if you want to use the word
               insurrection, coup, whatever. We all knew that this would move from a normal democratic
               . . . public event into something else.75
            But the logistics made the move all but impossible.
            It was complicated for the Secret Service to coordinate a presidential movement even
               on a normal day. But today was not a normal day. Tens of thousands of President Trumps
               supporters had flooded into downtown DC in the days before the rally, and the Secret
               Service would have to account for that unpredictability. By the end of the Presidents
               speech, it was clear that the crowd at the Capitol was growing violent.
            At 1:19 p.m., a Secret Service agent wrote to Bobby Engel, the head of President Trumps
               Secret Service detail: FYSA . . . [Capitol Police] having serious challenges securing
               [the Capitol]. Nine priority breach attempts at this time. OTR to anywhere near there
               is not advisable. Give me a call when free. Front Office concerned about OTR to [the
               Capitol].76
            7.3 The Presidents Anger When He Could Not March to the Capitol
            President Trump concluded his remarks at 1:10 p.m. Luna heard the President mention
               his intention to join the march to the Capitol after he finished his remarks.77 Just before the President got into his vehicle, Meadows told him, Were going to
               work on it, sir.78 President Trump was seated in his motorcade vehicle by 1:17 p.m.79
            The Committee received information informally from current and former members of the
               Secret Service and former White House staff relevant to what happened nextwhat a
               number of witnesses have described as an angry, irate, or furious interaction
               in the Presidential vehicle between the President and the Secret Service.80 That initial information, received informally, shaped the Committees questioning
               of witnesses. The Committees principal concern was that the President actually intended to participate personally in the January 6th efforts at the Capitol, leading the
               effort to overturn the election either from inside the Chamber or from a stage outside
               the Capitol. The Committee regarded those facts as important because they are relevant
               to President Trumps intent on January 6th. But a book published by Mark Meadows in
               November 2021 made the categorical claim that the President never intended to travel to the Capitol that day.81  Because the Meadows book conflicted sharply with information that was being received
               by the Committee, the Committee became increasingly wary that witnesses might intentionally
               conceal what happened.
            In our initial informal discussion with the lead of the Presidents detail, Robert
               Engel confirmed that President Trump did wish to travel to the Capitol from the Ellipse,
               but stated that he did not recall many other details.82 But the Committee also received information from Kayleigh McEnany and Cassidy Hutchinson
               which also directly contradicted Mark Meadowss book and provided considerably more
               detail. McEnany testified that President Trump did indeed wish to travel to the Capitol
               on January 6th, and continued to have that goal even after returning from the Ellipse
               to the White House.83 McEnany, who spoke with President Trump shortly after he returned to the White House,
               recalls him expressing a desire to go to the Capitol: I recall him . . . saying that
               he wanted to physically walk and be a part of the march and then saying that he would
               ride the Beast if he needed to, ride in the Presidential limo.84  When asked, McEnany confirmed that yes, he did seem sincere about wanting to do
               that.85 Hutchinsons testimony was generally consistent with the information the Select Committee
               was receiving informally. Like McEnany, Hutchinson confirmed that the President did
               ask to be transported to Capitol Hill.86 Many other White House witnesses would ultimately confirm that President Trump wished
               to travel to the Capitol on January 6th, comprehensively rebutting the false statements
               in Meadowss book.87
            Part of Hutchinsons account was a secondhand description of what occurred in the
               Presidential vehicle, which built upon and was consistent with information the Committee
               has received informally.
            Hutchinson testified that, when she returned from the Ellipse, Ornato was standing
               outside his office door when he waved me down, Hutchinson said. The two of them
               walked into Ornatos office, and he shut the door behind them.88 Engel was already there, sitting in a chair looking down, kind of looking a little
               lost and kind of discombobulated.89
            
                  Cassidy Hutchinson describes a story relayed to her by Tony Ornato about President
                     Trumps desire to go to the Capitol after the Ellipse speech on January 6th during
                     a January 6th Select Committee hearing.
                  (Photo by Brandon Bell/Getty Images)
               
            
            According to Hutchinson, Ornato then recounted a struggle in the Presidents car.90 At no point during Ornatos tellingor at any point thereafterdid Engel indicate
               that what Ornato relayed was untrue.91 
            Another witness, a White House employee with national security responsibilities, provided
               the Committee with a similar description: Ornato related the irate interaction in
               the presidential vehicle to this individual in Ornatos White House office with Engel
               present.92 And just as Hutchinson testified, this employee told the Select Committee that Engel
               listened to Ornatos retelling of the episode and did not dispute it: I dont remember
               his specific body language, but . . . [h]e did not deny the fact that the President
               was irate.93 Engel testified that he does not recall either the conversation with Hutchinson or
               the similar conversation with the White House employee with national security responsibilities.94
            The Committee regarded both Hutchinson and the corroborating testimony by the White
               House employee with national security responsibilities national security official
               as earnest and has no reason to conclude that either had a reason to invent their
               accounts. A different Secret Service agent, who served on a protective detail at the
               White House and was present in the presidential motorcade at the Ellipse, provided
               this view:
            Committee Staff: Just a couple of additional questions. Ms. Hutchinson has suggested
               to the Committee that you sympathized with her after her testimony, and believed her
               account. Is that accurate?
            Witness: I have noyeah, thats accurate. I have no reasonI mean, wewe became friends.
               We workedI worked every day with her for 6 months. Yeah, she became a friend of mine.
               We had a good working relationship. I have no reasonshes never done me wrong. Shes
               never lied that I know of. I dont have any reasonI dontI dont distrust Ms. Hutchinson.95
            Also, the White House employee with national security responsibilities indicated that
               knowledge of the angry altercation in the Presidential vehicle was known within the
               White Houseand was [water] cooler talk.96  In addition, Hutchinson has provided testimony to the Committee about efforts by
               her prior counsel, who was apparently paid by a Trump-funded organization, to suggest
               that Hutchinson did not need to testify about the issue in the presidential vehicle,
               could suggest that she did not recall it, or should downplay it.97
            To further corroborate the accounts received of President Trumps intent to travel
               to the Capitol, the Committee interviewed a member of the Metropolitan Police who
               was also present in the motorcade, Officer Mark Robinson. Officer Robinson confirmed
               that he was aware contemporaneously of the heated discussion that took place in
               the Presidential vehicle:
            Committee Staff:  And was there any description of what was occurring in the car?
            Mr. Robinson:  No. Only thatthe only description I received was that the President
               was upset and that he was adamant about going to the Capitol, and there was a heated
               discussion about that.
            Committee Staff: When you say heated, is that your word, or is that the word that
               was described by the TS agent?
            Mr. Robinson:  No. The word described by the TS agent meaning that the President was
               upset, and he was saying there was a heated argument or discussion about going to
               the Capitol.
            . . . .
            Mr. Schiff:  So about how many times would you say youve been part of that motorcade
               with the President?
            Mr. Robinson:  Probably over a hundred times.
            Mr. Schiff:  And, in that hundred times, have you ever witnessed another discussion
               of an argument or a heated discussion with the President where the President was contradicting
               where he was supposed to go or what the Secret Service believed was safe?
            Mr. Robinson:  No.98
            The Committee also interviewed the Secret Service agent who was in the same car as
               Officer Robinson. That person shared a similar account, and confirmed that he did
               not take issue with Officer Robinsons testimony:  [The driver of the Presidential
               car] said something to the effect of, The President is pretty adamant that he wants
               to go to the Capitol, the agent said, recalling what he had heard on the 6th.99
            In addition, the Committee interviewed the USSS Press Secretary, who communicated
               with both Engel and with the driver in the presidential vehicle after Hutchinson appeared
               publicly. That witness indicated that Engels account of the events confirmed that
               the President was indeed angry, or furious.100 In fact, when asked about a reporters tweet indicating that sources within the Secret
               Service confirmed that Trump was furious about not being [able] to go to [the] Capitol
               with his supporters, the Press Secretary said he certainly corroborated it with
               the reporter because thats what I had been told, you know, that [the President]
               was upset, he was agitated, about not being able to go[.]101
            In addition to the testimony above, the Committee has reviewed hundreds of thousands
               of new Secret Service documents, including many demonstrating that the Secret Service
               had been informed of potential violence at the Capitol before the Ellipse rally on
               January 6th. (These documents were critical to our understanding of what the Secret
               Service and White House knew about the threat to the Capitol on January 6th.) The
               Committee has also more recently conducted additional interviews with Engel and Ornato,
               and has also interviewed the driver of the Presidential vehicle.
            Both Engel and the driver102 testified that, within 30 seconds of getting into the vehicle, the President asked
               if he could travel to the Capitol.103 This again is directly inconsistent with the account of events in Meadowss book.
               According to Engel, he told the President immediately that the move wasnt happening.104 The President was unhappy with Engels response and began pushing pretty hard to
               go.105 The President repeatedly asked why he could not go to the Capitol.106 Engel replied that the Secret Service didnt have any people at the Capitol to
               provide the President with appropriate security.107 The President responded angrily, telling Engel and the driver Im the President
               and Ill decide where I get to go.108 He reassured Engel that it would essentially be fine and that the people there [meaning
               the people who were marching from the Ellipse to the Capitol at President Trumps
               instruction] were [Trump] supporters or something to that effect,109 According to the Secret Service agent driving the vehicle, the President was animated
               and irritated about not going to the Capitol.110
            According to Mr. Engel, he ultimately told the President that they would assess what
               our options were and wait until we can get a plan in place before we went down there.111 We note that the drivers account acknowledged President Trumps anger to a greater
               degree than either Engels initial account in Spring 2022, or his more recent account
               in November 2022. Engel did not characterize the exchange in the vehicle the way Hutchinson
               described the account she heard from Ornato, and indicated that he did not recall
               President Trump gesturing toward him.112 Engel did not recall being present when Ornato gave either Hutchinson or the White
               House employee with national security responsibilities an accounting of the events.113  The driver testified that he did not recall seeing what President Trump was doing
               and did not recall whether there was movement.114
            The Select Committee has great respect for the men and women of the Secret Service.
               That said, it is difficult to fully reconcile the accounts of several of the witnesses
               who provided information with what we heard from Engel and Ornato.115  But the principal factual point here is clear and undisputed: President Trump specifically
               and repeatedly requested to be taken to the Capitol. He was insistent and angry, and
               continued to push to travel to the Capitol even after returning to the White House.
            The motorcade didnt disband upon arriving to the White House, as they usually do.
               Instead, they were instructed to stand by in case the Presidents move to the Capitol
               did indeed happen.116 The Select Committee received a document from the Secret Service that reflects that
               at 1:25 p.m., PPD IS ADVISING THAT [THE PRESIDENT] IS PLANNING ON HOLDING AT THE
               WHITE HOUSE FOR THE NEXT APPROXIMATE TWO HOURS, THEN MOVING TO THE CAPITOL.117 They had not made a decision whether or not we were going to transport the President
               to the Capitol, Robinson was told.118
            Engel testified that he went to Ornatos office when he returned to the West Wing
               in order to discuss a possible move to the Capitol by President Trump.119 Given the deteriorating security conditions at the Capitol, it was quickly determined
               that they could not safely transport the President there.120 The motorcade waited on West Executive Drive approximately 40 minutes before finally
               receiving word from the Secret Service that the move had been officially nixed. Internal
               Secret Service communications bear this out: Not until 1:55 p.m. did Engel notify
               other agents via email that [w]e are not doing an OTR to [the Capitol].121
            7.4 Were Going to Try to Get the President to Put Out a Statement
            Minutes after arriving back at the White House, the President ran into a member of
               the White House staff and asked whether he or she watched his speech on television.122
            Sir, they cut it off because theyre rioting down at the Capitol, the employee said.
            The President asked what he or she meant by that.
            [T]heyre rioting down there at the Capitol, the employee repeated.
            Oh really? the President asked. All right, lets go see.123
            A photograph taken by the White House photographerthe last one permitted until later
               in the daycaptures the moment the President heard the news from the employee at 1:21
               p.m.124 By that time, if not sooner, he had been made aware of the violent riot at the Capitol.
            President Trump walked through the corridor from the Oval Office into the Presidential
               Dining Room and sat down at the table with the television remote and a Diet Coke close
               at hand.125 For the rest of the afternoonas his country faced an hours-long attackhe hunkered
               down in or around the dining room, watching television.126 He left only for a few minutesfrom 4:03 p.m. to 4:07 p.m.to film a video in the
               Rose Garden, only a few steps away, after hours of arm-twisting.127  But otherwise, the President remained in the dining room until 6:27 p.m., when he
               returned to his private residence.128
            What happened during the 187 minutes from 1:10 p.m. to 4:17 p.m., when President Trump
               finally told the rioters to go home, isfrom an official standpointundocumented.
            For instance, the Presidential Daily Diarythe schedule that tracks every meeting
               and phone call in which the President partakesis inexplicably blank between 1:21
               p.m. and 4:03 p.m.129 When asked to explain the gap in record-keeping on and around January 6th, White
               House officials in charge of its maintenance provided no credible explanation, including:
               I dont recall a specific reason.130
            The men who spent most of the afternoon in that room with the President, Mark Meadows
               and Dan Scavino, both refused to comply with lawful subpoenas from the Select Committee.131 Others in the dining room appeared before the Select Committee but cited executive
               privilege to avoid answering questions about their direct communications with President
               Trump.132 Others who worked just outside of the Oval Office, like the Presidents personal
               secretaries Molly Michael and Austin Ferrer Piran Basauldo, claimed not to remember
               nearly anything from one of the most memorable days in recent American history.133
            The White House photographer, Shealah Craighead, had been granted access to photograph
               the President during his January 6th speech, but once she got to the White Houseand
               it became clear that an attack was unfolding on the Capitols stepsshe was turned
               away.134
            The President [didnt] want any photos, she was told.135
            Heres what President Trump did during the 187 minutes between the end of his speech
               and when he finally told rioters to go home: For hours, he watched the attack from
               his TV screen.136 His channel of choice was Fox News.137 He issued a few tweets, some on his own inclination and some only at the repeated
               behest of his daughter and other trusted advisors.138 He made several phone calls, some to his personal lawyer Rudolph Giuliani, some to
               Members of Congress about continuing their objections to the electoral certification,
               even though the attack was well underway.139
            Heres what President Trump did not do: He did not call any relevant law enforcement
               agency to ensure they were working to quell the violence. He did not call the Secretary
               of Defense; he did not call the Attorney General; he did not call the Secretary of
               Homeland Security.140 And for hours on end, he refused the repeated requestsfrom nearly everyone who talked
               to himto simply tell the mob to go home.141
            Throughout the afternoon, senior staff regularly entered the room to give him updates
               on what was happening at the Capitol.142 And, of course, President Trump used Twitter, where information is shared on an instantaneous
               basis.
            Shortly after President Trump entered the dining room, White House Press Secretary
               Kayleigh McEnany swung by to check in with him about the letter Vice President Pence
               released around 1:00 p.m. announcing that he would not, in fact, overturn the will
               of the voters.
            The President, once again, brought up going to the Capitol.143 McEnany recorded what he said in her notes, certain of which she later produced to
               the Select Committee: POTUS wanted to walk to [sic] capital. Physically walk. He
               said fine ride beast, referring to the nickname for the presidential vehicle. Meadows
               said not safe enough[.]144
            Meadows told Hutchinson at some point in the day that the President wasnt happy
               that Bobby [Engel] didnt pull it off for him, meaning the trip to the Capitol, and
               that Mark didnt work hard enough to get the movement on the books.145
            Despite the turmoil just outside its walls, the proceedings in the joint sessionwhich
               had begun at 1:00 p.m.were still ongoing, and the President was watching them on
               the television.146 He was eager to know which senators were lodging objections on his behalf.147 Back there and he wants list of senators, McEnanys notes read. Who [sic] objecting
               to what. Hes calling them one by one.148
            The Select Committee subpoenaed several Members of Congress who reportedly spoke with
               President Trump during the afternoon.149  None of them complied.150
            Cellular records obtained by the Select Committee suggest that President Trump was
               on the phone with his lawyer Rudolph Giuliani at least twice during this period. Giulianis
               phone connected with the White House switchboard for 3 minutes and 53 seconds at 1:39
               p.m. and again for more than 8 minutes at 2:03 p.m.151 Between the two calls, at 1:49 p.m., President Trump tweeted a link to a video of
               his speech from the Ellipse.152
            Before 1:57 p.m., Herschmann phoned Senior Advisor to the President Jared Kushnerwho was on a plane travelling home from overseasadvising him that people are trying to break into the Capitol and that this is getting pretty ugly.153
            Were going to see what we can do here, Herschmann said. Were going to try to
               get the President to put out a statement.154
            7.5 He Doesnt Want to Do Anything
            Throughout the afternoon, the Presidents advisors tried to get him to tell the mob
               to leave the Capitol, but to no avail.
            Ben Williamson, the White House Acting Director of Communications, watched on the
               news as officers and rioters pepper sprayed each other and crowds used bicycle barricades
               to push against officers holding the line.155 He and Sarah Matthews, the Deputy Press Secretary, devised a plan: He would go to
               Meadows and she would go to McEnany to urge that the President issue a statement.156 Williamson first texted Meadows:
            Would recommend POTUS put out a tweet about respecting the police over at the Capitol.157
            Minutes later, around 2:05 p.m., Hutchinson found Meadows seated in his office on
               the couch, absorbed by his cell phone screen.158
            Are you watching the TV, chief? she asked. He indicated he was.
            Have you talked to the President? she asked.
            No, he replied. He wants to be alone right now.159
            Rioters broke into the west side of the Capitol building around 2:13 p.m.160 Just a few minutes later, Hutchinson saw Cipollone barreling down the hallway andafter
               looking at Hutchinson and shaking his headopened the door to Meadowss office unannounced.161 Meadows was right where she left him, still sitting on his phone.162
            The rioters have gotten to the Capitol, Mark. We need to go down and see the President
               now, she heard Cipollone say.163 Cipollone would not confirm or deny any of this exchange, citing executive privilege.164
            He doesnt want to do anything, Pat, Meadows said, peering up from his phone.165
            Mark something needs to be done, or people are going to die and the bloods gonna
               be on your [fucking] hands, Cipollone said. This is getting out of control. Im
               going down there.166
            Meadows finally stood up from the couch and walked with Cipollone toward the dining
               room to meet with the President.167
            7.6 He Thinks Mike Deserves It
            At exactly 2:24 p.m., President Trump made his first public statement during the attack
               on the Capitol by tweet. It read nothing like the statement his advisors had envisioned.
               It read:
            Mike Pence didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our
               Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of
               facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.
               USA demands the truth!168
            Minutes later, Meadows and Cipollone returned from their talk with the President.169 No statement was forthcoming.
            Mark, we need to do something more. Theyre literally calling for the Vice President
               to be [fucking] hung, Hutchinson heard Cipollone say.170
            You heard him, Pat, Meadows replied. He thinks Mike deserves it. He doesnt think
               theyre doing anything wrong.171
            This is [fucking] crazy. We need to be doing something more, Cipollone said.172
            Cipollone told the Select Committee that there needed to be an immediate and forceful
               response, statement, public statement, that people need to leave the Capitol now.173 He said he was pretty clear about his view in the White House that day, and he
               made that view known as soon as he became aware of the unrest.174 He would not comment on how the President responded, or on this conversation with
               Meadows, citing executive privilege.175  He did indicate that everyone in the White Houseexcept President Trumpagreed that
               people needed to leave the Capitol:
            Vice Chair Cheney: And who on the staff did not want people to leave the Capitol?
            Mr. Cipollone: On the staff?
            Vice Chair Cheney: In the White House.
            Mr. Cipollone: I cant think of anybody on that day who didnt want people to get
               out of the Capitol once theparticularly once the violence started. No. I mean
            Mr. Schiff: What about the President?
            Vice Chair Cheney: Yeah.
            Mr. Cipollone: Well, she said the staff. So I answered.
            Vice Chair Cheney: No. I said in the White House.
            Mr. Cipollone: Oh, Im sorry. I apologize. I thought you said who else on the staff.
               [Pauses to confer with counsel] Yeah. I cant reveal communications. But obviously I think, you knowyeah.176
            
                  Noose set up outside of the Capitol on January 6, 2021.
                  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
               
            
            What the President did tweeta broadside at his Vice Presidentenlarged the target on Vice President Pences
               back. A Secret Service agent in the Protective Intelligence Division, tasked with
               monitoring threats against protectees in part by scouring social media, told his colleagues
               the tweet was probably not going to be good for Pence.177
            A second agent in reply noted that it had garnered [o]ver 24K likes in under 2 mins.178
            7.7 I Guess Theyre Just More Upset About the Election Theft Than You Are
            Minutes after drawing increased attention to his besieged Vice President, the President
               called newly elected Senator Tommy Tuberville of Alabama at 2:26 p.m.179 He misdialed, calling Senator Mike Lee of Utah instead, but one passed the phone
               to the other in short order.180
            President Trump wanted to talk objections to the electoral count. But Senator Tubervillealong
               with every other elected official trapped and surrounded in the buildinghad other
               things on his mind.181
            I said, Mr. President, theyve taken the Vice President out. They want me to get
               off the phone, I gotta go, Senator Tuberville told reporters.182 [W]ere not doing much work here right now.183
            In the next half hour, between 2:26 p.m. and 3:06 p.m., President Trump spoke with
               House Leader Kevin McCarthy.184
            Leader McCarthy told the public in a live interview with CBS News, while he and his
               colleagues were sheltering at a secure location,185 that he was very clear in telling President Trump to talk to the nation to tell
               them to stop this.186
            Leader McCarthy later recounted his conversation to a number of people, including
               Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler, a Republican congresswoman from Washington State.187 You have got to get on TV, youve got to get on Twitter, youve got to call these
               people off, he said he told the President.188
            [These] arent my people, you know, these arethese are Antifa, President Trump
               insisted, against all evidence.189 Theyre your people. They literally just came through my office windows, and my
               staff are running for cover. I mean, theyre running for their lives. You need to
               call them off, Leader McCarthy told him.190
            What President Trump said next was chilling, in Representative Herrera Beutlers
               words.191
            Well, Kevin, I guess theyre just more upset about the election theft than you are,
               the President said.192
            The call then devolved into a swearing match.193
            Mick Mulvaney, former Chief of Staff to President Trump, had a similar call with Leader
               McCarthy in the days after the attack. McCarthy told Mulvaney that he urged the President
               to get the rioters to stop, and the President replied, Kevin, maybe these people
               are just more angry about this than you are.194
            Marc Short, the Vice Presidents Chief of Staff, spoke with Leader McCarthy later
               that afternoon.195 Leader McCarthy told Short that he had spoken with President Trump and that he was
               frustrat[ed] that the White House was not taking the circumstance as seriously
               as they should at that moment.196 The administration was demonstrating a lack of response or lack of responsibility,
               Leader McCarthy told Short.197
            At 2:49 p.m.as the violence escalatedPresident Trumps speechwriter Gabriel Robert
               texted someone: Potus im sure is loving this.198
            7.8 Stay Peaceful!
            No one was getting through to the President.
            So Herschmann went to Ivanka Trumps office, hoping she would come to the dining room
               and be a calming influence on her father.199 Herschmann just sort of barged in and told her to turn on the television.200 After taking in a few of the violent scenes together, Herschmann and Ivanka Trump
               left the room and walked to the dining room, where her father was holed up.201
            At 2:38 p.m., the President issued a tweet:202
            Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They are truly on the side
               of our Country. Stay peaceful!203
            Ivanka Trump told the Select Committee that the President did not push back on [her]
               suggestion to issue the tweet, and that it was either she or President Trump himself
               who suggested the last line, Stay peaceful!204 She confirmed there may have been some tweaking of the wording.205 McEnany, who was in the room at the time, wrote in her notes that I say add we
               support PEACEFUL protest. Ivanka add stay peaceful!  Instead.206 To the Select Committee, McEnany echoed Ivanka Trump that the President wasnt resistant
               in any way to putting out the message.207
            
                  Sarah Matthews testifies at a January 6th Select Committee hearing.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            But in private, McEnany told a different story to her deputy Sarah Matthews.
            
                  Testimony footage of former White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany is played
                     during a January 6th Select Committee hearing.
                  (Photo by Pool/Getty Images)
               
            
            Back in the White House press office, Matthews told McEnany that the tweet did not
               go far enough in condemning the violence.208 McEnanynoting that other staffers in the room were distractedsaid in a hushed
               tone . . . that the President did not want to include any sort of mention of peace
               in that tweet.209
            That took some convincing on their part, McEnany said, and it wasnt until Ivanka
               Trump suggested the phrase Stay peaceful! that he finally agreed to include it.210
            Ivanka Trump repeatedly returned to the dining room to counsel her father throughout
               the day. It has been reported that each time Ivanka Trump thought she had made headway
               with her father, Meadows would call her to say the [P]resident still needed more
               persuadinga cycle that repeated itself over several hours that afternoon.211 After one such trip, Ivanka Trump told the Select Committee she went to her husbands
               office next door because she needed to regroup and collect herself.212
            Several witnesses corroborated pieces of this account. General Kellogg said he saw
               Ivanka Trump coming and going from the dining room at least twice that afternoon.213 Hutchinson said that it was several times.214 Once, Ivanka Trump reportedly left her father with a look on her face as if [s]he
               had just had a tough conversation.215 Radford, Ivanka Trumps Chief of Staff, saw that she was [v]isibly upset but continued
               going down there when people were asking her to be down there and trying to get action
               taken.216
            Radford told the Select Committee that Ivanka Trump believed that [s]omething should
               be said or put out that was even stronger.217
            Hutchinson, too, recalled Ivanka Trump dropping by Meadowss office alongside Cipollone
               and talking about trying to convince her father to say something more direct than
               he had wanted to at that time and throughout the afternoon.218
            I remember her saying at various points, Hutchinson said, she wanted her dad to
               send them home. She wanted her dad to tell them to go home peacefully, and she wanted
               to include language that he necessarily wasnt on board with at the time.219
            7.9 The President Needs to Stop This ASAP
            President Trumps 2:38 p.m. tweet did not condemn the violence at the Capitol. It
               did not tell rioters to leave the building.
            In the minutes before the tweet, Fox Newson the Presidents screenrelayed that the
               Capitol was on lockdown;220 that Capitol police officers were injured; that rioters were in the building and
               just feet from the House chamber.221 In the minutes afterward, networks would report there was tear gas in the Capitol,
               forcing Members of Congress to evacuate in protective masks.222 At 2:39 p.m., Secret Service agents reported that [m]ore just got in.223
            I dont know how theyre gonna retake the Capitol building back at this point, one
               agent wrote to others two minutes later.224
            At 2:44 p.m., a Capitol police officer shot a rioter named Ashli Babbitt.225 A handwritten notedashed off onto a White House pocket card and preserved by the
               National Archivesread: 1x civilian gunshot wound to chest @ door of House cha[m]ber.226 One White House employee saw the note on the dining table in front of President Trump.227
            A barrage of text messages inundated Meadowss phone with a consistent plea.228 Everyone from conservative media personalities to Republican allies in Congressand
               even the Presidents own familyurged the President to do more:
            Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, 2:28 p.m.: Mark I was just told there is an active shooter on the first floor of the Capitol
               Please tell the President to calm people[.] This isnt the way to solve anything.229
            Laura Ingraham, 2:32 p.m.: Hey Mark, The [sic] president needs to tell people in the Capitol to go home.
               This is hurting all of us. He is destroying his legacy and playing into every stereotype
               . . . we lose all credibility against the BLM/Antifa crowd if things go South.  You
               can tell him I said this.230
            Mick Mulvaney, 2:35 p.m.: Mark: he needs to stop this, now. Can I do anything to help?231
            Representative Barry Loudermilk, 2:44 p.m.: Its really bad up here on the hill.  They have breached the Capitol.232 At 2:48 p.m., Meadows responded: POTUS is engaging.233 At 2:49 p.m., Loudermilk responded: Thanks. This doesnt help our cause.234
            Representative William Timmons, 2:46 p.m.: The president needs to stop this ASAP.235  At 2:49 p.m., Meadows responded: We are doing it.236
            Donald Trump, Jr., 2:53 p.m.: Hes got to condem [sic] this shit. Asap. The captiol [sic] police tweet is not
               enough.237 Meadows responded: I am pushing it hard. I agree.238 Later, Trump, Jr., continued: This his [sic] one you go to the mattresses on. They
               will try to fuck his entire legacy on this if it gets worse.239
            White House staff discussed issuing yet another, stronger statement to address the
               ongoingand escalatingviolence. Around 3:00 p.m., one proposal was written in block
               capital letters on a pocket card from the chief of staffs office:
            ANYONE WHO ENTERED THE CAPITOL ILLEGALLY WITHOUT PROPER AUTHORITY SHOULD LEAVE IMMEDIATELY[.]240
            The handwriting appears to have been scrawled quickly and somewhat messily.  Hutchinson
               recalled Meadows returning from the dining room with the note in hand and placing
               it on her desk.241 The word illegally had been newly crossed out.242
            But there would be no further action, Meadows told her.243
            At 3:13 p.m., 35 minutes after his last tweet, the President issued another tweet.
               Rather than coming out with a stronger statement, the 3:13 p.m. tweet largely parroted
               the one preceding it:
            I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No violence!  Remember,
               WE are the Party of Law &amp; Orderrespect the Law and our great men and women in Blue.
               Thank you!244
            Ivanka Trumpwho was in the room when her father published the messagetold the Select
               Committee that the gravity of the situation made her feel that it would be helpful
               to tweet again.245 The [earlier] tweet didnt stop the violence, Herschmann said.246
            This tweetlike the last onedidnt tell the rioters to go home. It suggested that
               they remain at the Capitol, albeit peacefully.
            7.10 We Love You. Youre Very Special
            
                  Guns are drawn in the House Chamber on January 6th as rioters attempt to break in.
                  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
               
            
            The Presidents tweets were not tamping down on the violence, and White House staff
               knew it.247 By 3:17 p.m., Fox News was reporting gunshots on Capitol Hill. Law enforcement officers
               could be seen in the House chamber, pointing guns over the barricaded door: The chyron
               blared Guns Drawn on House Floor.248 Between 3:29 p.m. and 3:42 p.m., the network was flashing images of a protestor in
               the presiding officers chair, right where Vice President Pence had been sitting 90
               minutes earlier.249  Other images showed Members of Congress trapped in the House gallery, crouching
               below the balcony for cover.250
            Allies continued to text Meadows, begging the President to order the mob to go home
               and indicating that it was time the American people hear from the President directly:
            Unknown, 3:04 p.m.: Are you with potus right now? Hearing he is in the dining room watching this on
               TV . . . Is he going to say anything to de-escalate apart from that Tweet?251
            Reince Priebus, 3:09 p.m.: TELL THEM TO GO HOME !!!252
            Unknown, 3:13 p.m.: POTUS should go on air and defuse this. Extremely important.253
            Alyssa Farah, 3:13 p.m.: Potus has to come out firmly and tell protestors to dissipate. Someone is going
               to get killed . . .254
            Representative Chip Roy, 3:25 p.m.: Fix this now.255  Meadows responded: We are.256
            Sean Hannity (Fox News), 3:31 p.m.: Can he make a statement. I saw the tweet. Ask people to peacefully leave the capital
               [sic].257  Meadows responded: On it.258
            Katrina Pierson, 3:40 p.m.: Note: I was able to keep the crazies off the stage. I stripped all branding of
               those nutty groups and removed videos of all of the psychos. Glad it [sic] fought
               it.259
            Unknown, 3:42 p.m.: Pls have POTUS call this off at the Capitol. Urge rioters to disperse. I pray to
               you.260
            Unknown, 3:57 p.m.: Is he coming out? He has to right?261
            Brian Kilmeade, 3:58 p.m. (Fox News): Please get him on tv. Destroying every thing you guys have accomplished.262
            Donald Trump, Jr., 4:05 p.m.: We need an oval address. He has to lead now. Its gone too far and gotten out of
               hand.263
            At any moment in the afternoon, it would have been easy for President Trump to get
               before cameras and call off the attack. The White House Press Briefing Room is just
               down the hallway from the Oval Office, past the Cabinet Room and around the corner
               to the right. It would have taken less than 60 seconds for the President to get there.264 The space, moreover, is outfitted with cameras that are constantly hot, meaning
               that they are on and ready to go live at a moments notice.265 The White House press corps is also situated in the West Wing, right by the briefing
               room.266 The whole affair could have been assembled in minutes.267
            However, it was not until nearly 3 hours after the violence began that President Trump
               finally agreed to tell the mob to go home.268
            The Presidential Daily Diary notes that President Trump left the dining room to shoot
               the video at 4:03 p.m.269 By this pointper Fox News coverage playing continually in the dining roommore law
               enforcement officers had arrived at the Capitol to resist the violent mob.270
            
            The video shoot took place in the Rose Garden, the outdoor space that borders the
               Oval Office and the West Wing.271 The setup was not ornate, just a camera and a microphone. Luna made sure that the
               background and lighting looked good, and that President Trumps hair and tie were
               in place.272 President Trump delivered his remarks in one take, more or less, although he stopped
               and restarted at one point.273  In all, the video took less than 4 minutes to shoot, and the President was back
               in the dining room by 4:07 p.m.274
            
                  President Trump huddles with aides, watching a completed take of a video through the
                     monitor of the video camera.
                  (Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            I would stick to this script . . . , McEnany told President Trump before he stepped
               out to film.275
            He didnt.
            Kushner and others had drafted a statement, but President Trump spoke entirely off
               the cuff.276 Heres what he said:
            I know your pain. I know youre hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us.
               It was a landslide election and everyone knows it, especially the other side. But
               you have to go home now. We have to have peace. We have to have law and order. We
               have to respect our great people in law and order. We dont want anybody hurt. Its
               a very tough period of time. Theres never been a time like this where such a thing
               happened where they could take it away from all of us, from me, from you, from our
               country. This was a fraudulent election. But we cant play into the hands of these
               people. We have to have peace. So go home, we love you. Youre very special. Youve
               seen what happens. You see the way others are treated that are so bad and so evil.
               I know how you feel, but go home and go home in peace.277
            A photo obtained from the National Archives shows President Trump and Herschmann huddled
               next to each other, watching a completed take through the monitor on the video camera.278
            There needs to be a more direct statement telling the rioters to leave the Capitol,
               Luna heard Herschmannyet againtell the President.279  Herschmann testified that he did not recall this exchange.280
            But according to Luna, President Trump rejected the note.
            These people are in pain, he said in reply.281
            Down at the Capitol, the video began streaming onto rioters phones, and by all accounts
               including video footage taken by other rioters, they listened to President Trumps
               command.
            Donald Trump has asked everybody to go home, one rioter shouted as he deliver[ed]
               the Presidents message. Thats our order, another rioter responded.  Others watching
               the video responded: He says, go home.282
            The crowd afterward began to disperse.283 The video made clear what had been evident to many, including those closest to him:
               The President could have called off the rioters far earlier and at any point that
               day.284 But he chose not to do so.285
            It was not until it was obvious that the riot would fail to stop the certification
               of the vote that the President finally relented and released a video statement made
               public at 4:17 p.m.286
            7.11 Remember This Day Forever!
            After leaving the Rose Garden, the President returned to the dining room.  At 6:01
               p.m., he issued another tweet, the last of the day:
            These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory
               is so unceremoniously &amp; viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been
               badly &amp; unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love &amp; in peace. Remember this
               day forever!287
            He retired to his residence for the evening at 6:27 p.m.288 A White House photographer captured the President walking back to the residence with
               an employee in tow, carrying personal items President Trump wished to bring home with
               him for the night.289 In the employees hands are the gloves the President was wearing while addressing
               the crowd at the Ellipse.290
            The President had one parting comment to the employeethe thing that was evidently
               occupying his mind even after an afternoon of violencebefore he retired to his home.
            Mike Pence let me down, the President concluded.291
            7.12 President Trump Still Sought to Delay the Joint Session 
            Even after President Trump finally told the rioters to go home, he and his lead attorney,
               Rudolph Giuliani, continued to seek to delay the joint session of Congress.
            Giuliani began frantically calling the White House line the very minute that the Presidents
               video went up on Twitter.292 Failing to get through, he called back, once every minute4:17 p.m., 4:18 p.m., 4:19
               p.m., 4:20 p.m.293 He managed to get through, briefly, to Mark Meadows at 4:21 p.m., and then kept calling
               the White House line: at 4:22 p.m., three times on two different phones at 4:23 p.m.,
               4:24 p.m., and once more at 5:05 p.m.294 He finally managed to speak with President Trump at 5:07 p.m., and the two spoke
               for almost 12 minutes.295
            After he spoke with President Trump, Giulianis phone calls went nearly without fail
               to Members of Congress: Senator Marsha Blackburn, and then Senator Mike Lee.296 He made three calls to Senator Bill Hagerty, then two to Representative Jim Jordan.297 He called Senator Lindsey Graham,298 Senator Josh Hawley,299 and Senator Ted Cruz.300 Giuliani had two calls with Senator Dan Sullivan over the course of the evening.301 There were another three calls to Representative Jordan, none of which connected.302 After 8:06 p.m., when the joint session resumed, the calls to Members of Congress
               finally stopped.303 Shortly afterward, at 8:39 p.m., Giuliani had one final call of 9 minutes with the
               President.304
            When asked about these calls during his deposition before the Select Committee, Giuliani
               initially refused to answer. Giuliani insisted his calls to Members of Congressnone
               of whom were his clientwere all attorney-client privileged.305 But Giuliani eventually relented.
            I was probably calling to see anyif anything could be done, he said. About the
               votethe vote.306
            We know definitively what Giuliani was up to because he left a voice message for Senator
               Tubervilleinadvertently on Senator Lees phonerecording his request.307 He wanted for you, our Republican friends to try to just slow it down, referring to the electoral
               count, and delay the joint session.308 Here are his own words:
            The only strategy we can follow is to object to numerous States and raise issues so
               that we get ourselves into tomorrowideally until the end of tomorrow. So if you could
               object to every State and, along with a congressman, get a hearing for every State,
               I know we would delay you a lot, but it would give us the opportunity to get the legislators
               who are very, very close to pulling their vote.309
            The President, too, was at home, but he remained focused on his goal. Between 6:54
               p.m. and 11:23 p.m., he spoke with 13 people, some more than once.310 Of the 13, six ignored or expressly refused to comply with Select Committee requests
               for their testimony.311 Two agreed to appear but refused to answer questions about their phone calls with
               the President, citing executive privilege.312 Two more refused to answer questions, claiming attorney-client privilege.313
            
                  Mike Pence reopens the joint session of Congress and resumes counting electoral votes.
                  (Photo by Will McNamee/Getty Images)
               
            
            Of the 13, five were President Trumps attorneys or lawyers who worked with him on
               efforts to reverse the outcome of the election. With one exception, each of these
               calls took place before 8:06 p.m., when Vice President Pence reopened the joint session
               of Congress and resumed counting the electoral votes.314 The President spoke with White House Counsel Pat Cipollone for 7 minutes at 7:01
               p.m.315 He spoke with Kurt Olsen and Mark Martin, lawyers who both advised him on the Vice
               Presidents role in the joint session:316 He spoke with Martin for 9 minutes at 7:30 p.m., and Olsen twice, for 11 minutes
               at 7:17 p.m. and for another 10 minutes at 7:40 p.m.317 He spoke with Cleta Mitchell, the lawyer leading his election challenges in Georgia,
               for 2 minutes at 7:53 p.m.318 The President spoke with Herschmann for 5 minutes at 10:50 p.m.319
            Another five of the people who spoke with President Trump that night were employees
               or outside advisors who counseled him on communications issues. These calls, by contrast,
               predominantly took place after the joint session resumed.320 He spoke with his communications director, Scavino, twice: for 7 minutes at 7:08
               p.m. and for 15 minutes at 9:55 p.m.321 He spoke with McEnany for 11 minutes at 9:42 p.m.322 He took calls from Steve Bannon, for 7 minutes at 10:19 p.m., and Sean Hannity, for
               8 minutes at 11:08 p.m.323
            At 9:23 p.m., President Trump spoke with Jason Miller, his Campaign Communications
               Director, for 18 minutes.324
            Of his own initiative, Miller had drafted a statement for the President assuring the
               nation that the transfer of powerdespite the days eventswould, indeed, take place.325 On their call, the President pushed back on the phrasing.
            The President wanted the statement to promise a peaceful transition of power, rather
               than just an orderly one.326
            Miller rejected the change and told him why rather bluntly.
            [T]hat ships kind of already sailed, he said, so were going to say orderly transition.327
            7.13 He Just Didnt Want to Talk About It Anymore
            The President did not, by any account, express grief or regret for what happened at
               the Capitol. Neither did he appear to grasp the gravity of what he had set in motion.
            In his last phone call of the night, the President spoke with Johnny McEntee, his
               Director of Personnel.328
            [T]his is a crazy day, the President told him. McEntee said his tone was one of
               [l]ike, wow, can you believe this shit . . .?329
            Did he express sadness over the violence visited upon the Capitol?
            No, McEntee said. I mean, I think he was shocked by, you know, it getting a little
               out of control, but I dont remember sadness, specifically.330
            President Trump didnt make any other phone calls for the rest of the night.331 The President didnt call Vice President Pence. In fact, President Trump never called
               to check on his Vice Presidents safety that day. He didnt call the heads of any
               of the Federal law enforcement agencies. He didnt call the leadershipneither Republican
               nor Democratof the legislative branch of government that had just been overrun by
               a mob.332
            Only two days after the riot, by January 8th, the President was over the whole thing.
            He just didnt want to talk about it anymore, he told his press aides. [H]e was
               tired of talking about it.333
            Ivanka Trump claimed to the Select Committee that her father was disappointed and
               surprised by the attack, but she could not name a specific instance of him expressly
               saying it.
            HeI just felt that, she said. I know him really well.334
            Heres what she could definitively say:
            Committee Staff:  Has he ever expressed to you any sentiment that he did or did not
               do the right thing in how he responded on the day of the 6th?
            Ms. Trump:  No.
            Committee Staff:  Has he ever expressed any sentiment about something that he wished
               he had done on the day of the 6th?
            Ms. Trump:  No.
            Committee Staff:  Has he ever said anything to you about the people who were injured
               or who died that day?
            Ms. Trump:  No.
            Committee Staff:  Has he ever said anything to you about whether he should or should
               not continue to talk about the 2020 Presidential election after the events on the
               6th?
            Ms. Trump:  No.335
            7.14 President Trumps Rhetoric Killed Someone
            The President may not have expressed regret over his behavior, but some of his most
               loyal supporters made the connection between his words and the violence.
            A member of the speechwriting team, Patrick MacDonnell, conceded the next day in a
               text that maybe the rhetoric could have been better.336 As the riot was in full throttle, even steadfast supporter Ali Alexander of Stop
               the Steal texted, POTUS is not ignorant of what his words will do.337
            We all look like domestic terrorists now, Hope Hicks texted Julie Radford.338
            Separately, Hicks texted Herschmann, So predictable and so sad.
            I know, he replied. Tragic.
            Im so upset. Everything we worked for wiped away, she continued.
            I agree. Totally self-inflicted, he wrote.339
            Brad Parscale, Trumps Former Campaign Manager, texted Katrina Pierson at 7:21 p.m.
               on January 6th, saying the days events were the result of a sitting president asking
               for civil war.340
            This week I feel guilty for helping him win . . . a woman is dead, Parscale added.
            You do realize this was going to happen, Pierson answered.
            Yeah. If I was trump [sic] and knew my rhetoric killed someone, he said.
            It wasnt the rhetoric, she said.
            Parscales reply: Yes it was.341
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  As explained in Chapter 8, the Proud Boys and other extremists initiated the attack
                  shortly before the joint session of Congress was set to begin at 1:00 p.m. The rioters
                  who streamed down Pennsylvania to the U.S. Capitol from the Ellipse then provided
                  crucial momentum for the attack. 
               2.  Manual for Courts-Martial United States, Department of Defense, (2019), at 334,
                  available at https://jsc.defense.gov/Portals/99/Documents/2019%20MCM%20(Final)%20(20190108).pdf?ver=2019-01-11-115724-610.
               3.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark. A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 268.
               4.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark. A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 83.
               5.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark. A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 296.
               6.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark. A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 268.
               7.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Hope Hicks, (October 25, 2022), pp. 108-110; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_033 (Jan. 6, 2021, Hogan Gidley text
                  message to Hope Hicks at 2:19 p.m. EST).
               8.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_033 (Jan. 6, 2021, Hogan
                  Gidley text message to Hope Hicks at 2:19 p.m. EST).
               9.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_033 (Jan. 6, 2021, Hogan
                  Gidley text message to Hope Hicks at 2:19 p.m. EST).
               10.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:38 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1346904110969315332.jpg (archived).
               11.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 3941.
               12.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014925 (January 6, 2021,
                  Donald Trump Jr. text message to Mark Meadows at 2:53 p.m. ET).
               13.  At 3:13 p.m., President Trump tweeted: I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol
                  to remain peaceful. No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law &amp; Orderrespect
                  the Law and our great men and women in Blue.  Thank you! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump),
                  Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:13 p.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1346912780700577792.jpg (archived).
               14.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               15.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               16.  New Video of Capitol Rioter: Trump is Still Our President, CNN Business, at 0:37,
                  Feb. 6, 2021, available at https://www.cnn.com/videos/media/2021/02/06/qanon-capitol-rioter-video-trump-still-president-sot-nr-vpx.cnn.
               17.  Trial Exhibit 6732 (1.S.159.1165-67, 84), United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C Nov. 1, 2022). Vallejo was manning the quick reaction force
                  at a hotel in Arlington, Virginia, awaiting word to bring in a cache of weaponry;
                  he was not at the Capitol on January 6th. Trial Exhibit 6731, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022) (Vallejo messaged his group in the afternoon
                  QRF standing by at hotel. Just say the word); Trial Transcript at 2728, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 12, 2022) (Oath Keeper Terry Cummings testified that
                  I had not seen that many weapons in one location since I was in the military when
                  he arrived at the Arlington hotel). 
               18.  Trump Video Telling Protesters at Capitol Building to Go Home: Transcript, Rev,
                  (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/trump-video-telling-protesters-at-capitol-building-to-go-home-transcript.
               19.  Trump Video Telling Protesters at Capitol Building to Go Home: Transcript, Rev,
                  (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/trump-video-telling-protesters-at-capitol-building-to-go-home-transcript.
               20.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:01 ET, available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-january-6-2021 (archived).
               21.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 125.
               22.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), p. 157.
               23.  Mariana Alfaro, Trump Vows Pardon, Government Apology to Capitol Rioters if Elected,
                  Washington Post, (Sept. 1, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/09/01/trump-jan-6-rioters-pardon/.
               24.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:06 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Sleepy+Eyes+Chuck+Todd+is+so+happy%22 (archived).
               25.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:17 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22All+Mike+Pence+has+to+do+is%22 (archived).
               26.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:22 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1 (archived).
               27.  Documents with file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (January 6,
                  2021, The Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump at 8:23 a.m. ET).
               28.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (January 6,
                  2021, The Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump at 8:23 a.m. ET). The Select Committee
                  issued subpoenas to Bannon, Olson, and Giuliani in order to learn more about these
                  telephone conversations, among other things.  Bannon refused to comply with his subpoena,
                  leading to his referral and ultimate conviction for criminal contempt of Congress.
                  Olson sued to block the Select Committee from enforcing his subpoena. Giuliani spoke
                  with the Select Committee but asserted attorney-client privilege with respect to all
                  of his telephone conversations with President Trump on January 6th. Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 198.
               29.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (January 6,
                  2021, The Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump at 9:02 a.m. ET); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 12. 
               30.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Stephen Miller, (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 145. 
               31.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ross Worthington, (Feb. 15, 2022), p. 112; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Ross Worthington Production), RW_0002633 (Jan. 4, 2021, email at 10:00 p.m. from
                  Ross Worthington to Patrick MacDonnell asking for research related to the January
                  6th speech).
               32.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), RW_0002341RW_0002351
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Stephen Miller emails to Ross Worthington, Vincent Haley and Robert
                  Gabriel, Jr. at 10:22 and 10:23 a.m. ET, attaching draft speech).
               33.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attacks
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), RW_00023412344 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, email from Stephen Miller to Ross Worthington, Vincent Haley, and Robert
                  Gabriel, re: EDITS, attaching draft Save America March speech with edits and comments).
               34.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attacks
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), RW_00023412343 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, email from Stephen Miller to Ross Worthington, Vincent Haley, and Robert
                  Gabriel, re: EDITS, attaching draft Save America March speech with edits and comments).
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ross Worthington, (Feb. 15, 2022), p. 164. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Vincent Haley,
                  (April 12, 2022), pp. 8889; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Sarah Miller, (April 14, 2022),
                  p. 148.
               36.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007430_0001
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Ross Worthington email to Vincent M. Haley at 10:49 a.m. ET).
               37.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Stephen Miller, (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 154.
               38.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 9:00 a.m. ET, available at
                  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22they+just+happened+to+find%22 (archived); Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 9:15 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22they+states+want+to+redo%22 (archived); Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 9:16 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22even+Mexico%22 (archived); Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 10:44 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22these+scoundrels+are+only+toying%22 (archived).
               39.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the Capitol, (National Archives Production), P-R000285 (January 6, 2021, Schedule
                  marked private with handwritten notes at 11:22 a.m. ET); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Keith Kellogg,
                  Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021) pp. 9093; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2021), p. 126.
               40.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 4849; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 22 (I could just
                  tell in his voice when he was talking to the Vice President that he was disappointed
                  and frustrated.).
               41.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 4.
               42.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2020), p. 18.
               43.  Compare Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000285 (January 6,
                  2021, schedule with handwritten notes about the meeting); with Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000100198 (communication
                  noting Mogul en route to the Ellipse at 11:39 a.m.).
               44.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 93.
               45.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P_R000007558_0001
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Stephen Miller email to Robert Gabriel Jr.).
               46.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007531_0001
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Robert Gabriel Jr. email to Ross Worthington at 11:33 a.m. ET).
               47.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P_R000007531_0001
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Ross Worthington email to Robert Gabriel Jr. at 11:34 a.m. ET).
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Vincent Haley, (Apr. 12, 2022), p. 95.
               49.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attacks
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), RW_00023412343 (January
                  6, 2021, email from Stephen Miller to Ross Worthington, Vincent Haley, and Robert
                  Gabriel, re: EDITS, attaching draft Save America March speech with edits and comments).
               50.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Vincent Haley, (Apr. 12, 2022), p. 95; Document on file with the Select
                  Committee (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007557_0001, 076P-R000007557_0034,
                  076P-R000002896_00001, 076P-R000002896_00025, 076P-R000002984_0001, 076P-R000002984_00304
                  (various drafts, including teleprompter inputs, of the speech).
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 126.
               52.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000286 (January 6,
                  2021, note from Nicholas Luna to President Trump).
               53.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000111236 (January.
                  6, 2021, Email Re: CSD Activity Log #2 at 2:49 p.m. ET).
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 8788; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000005179_00010002 (January
                  6, 2021 email reporting on the status of people going through the magnetometers and
                  noting [s]everal thousand on the mall watching but not in line.).
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1213.
               56.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson Production), CH-0000000069, (January
                  6, 2021, Cassidy Hutchinson text message to Tony Ornato at 12:45 p.m. ET).
               57.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1516; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th ([W]e were standing towards the front of the tent with the TVs really close to where
                  he would walk out to go on to the stage. Thethese conversations happened two to three
                  minutes before he took the stage that morning).
               58.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump at 11:55 a.m. ET).
               59.  Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6 (time-stamping the speech).
               60.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson Production), CH-0000000069 (January
                  6, 2021, Cassidy Hutchinson text message to Tony Ornato at 12:45 p.m. ET).
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 8.
               62.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002879_00001
                  (Save America March speech early draft); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Ross Worthington, (Feb. 15,
                  2022), p. 157.
               63.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR, (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial. 
               64.  Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6 (timestamping the speech).
               65.  Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6 (time-stamping the speech); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Alex Holder Production) Video file Clip 45DAY32CAMB0050.mov at 3:103:40 (capturing fight for Trump chants during Donald Trump, Jr.s speech); Lena V. Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed, and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, at 12:01 pm at 3:33 and at 12:05
                  pm at 0:30 (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/ (capturing fight for Trump chants droning out the President after he told the crowd
                  we will not let them silence your voices); FORMER WAGIE, FULL FOOTAGE: Patriots
                  STORM U.S. Capitol, YouTube, at 59:00, Jan. 6, 2021, posted Jan. 8, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iNFcdpZdkh0.
               66.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR, (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               67.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. But see Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), p. 129 (It wasnthe
                  didnt give me an impressions that he was frustrated or angry at the prospect of what
                  the President had said on the stage.  It was more of him trying to rush to get insight
                  on what our plans were and wanted to have insight and be read in on that in case we
                  had been planning to go up to the Capitol.).
               68.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson Production), CH-0000000069.
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp.12829; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th .
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               71.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000176702.
               72.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R001005-1026 (January
                  6, 2021, National Security Council staff chat logs); See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022), p. 47 (discussing
                  clearing a route to the Capitol for Mogul).  
               73.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022), p. 45.  
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022), p. 45.
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Security Official , (July 11, 2022), p. 45.
               76.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000208061 (January
                  6, 2021, email to Robert Engel at 1:19 p.m. ET). Despite the fact that the prospect
                  of an OTR to the Capitol was raised at the highest levels within the Secret Service,
                  some of its highest-ranking agents insisted to the Select Committee that they did
                  not recall any such discussions on the day of January 6th. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert
                  Engel, (Mar. 4. 2022), p. 77. When presented with his text messages with Cassidy Hutchinson
                  in which she referred to an OTR to Capitol, Tony Ornato insisted that he didnt
                  recall ever talking about this with her.  Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Anthony Ornato,
                  (Mar. 29, 2022), p. 62.
               77.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 117.
               78.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 8.
               79.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000257 (January 6,
                  2021, Presidential Daily Diary).
               80.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee Press Secretary,
                  (October 31, 2022), pp. 4951 (the word furious was consistent with what was described to me that occurredyou
                  know, agitated, furious, upset, angry, whatever adjective).
               81.  Mark Meadows, The Chiefs Chief, (St. Petersburg: All Seasons Press, 2021), at p. 250 (When he got offstage, President
                  Trump let me know that he had been speaking metaphorically about the walk to the Capitol....
                  It was clear the whole time that he didnt actually intent to walk down Pennsylvania
                  Avenue with the crowd.).
               82.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Robert Engel, (Mar. 4, 2022).
               83.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 15862.
               84.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 159.
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 160.
               86.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 58.
               87.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 90; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson P. Deere,
                  (Mar. 3, 2022), p. 71; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022) p. 118; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022) pp. 3536. 
               88.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 5.
               89.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 5.
               90.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               91.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 67.
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee with National Security Responsibilities,
                  (July 19, 2022), pp. 6971.
               93.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee with National Security Responsibilities,
                  (July 19, 2022), p. 71.
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), pp. 14344, 14748.
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee, (Nov. 21, 2022), pp.
                  9293. 
               96.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee with National Security Responsibilities
                  (July 19, 2022), p. 73 (In the days following that, I do remember, you know, again,
                  hearing again how angry the President was when, you know, they were in the limo.)
               97.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Sep. 14, 2022), pp. 34, 36, 3738, 55.
               98.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Robinson, (July 7, 2022), pp. 18, 23.
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee, (Nov. 4, 2022), pp.
                  99100.
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee Press Secretary,
                  (Oct. 31, 2022), pp. 46, 50. 
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee Press Secretary,
                  (Oct. 31, 2022), p. 50; see also Carol Leonnig (@CarolLeonnig), Twitter, June 28, 2022 7:46 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/CarolLeonnig/status/1541931078184845312.  The press secretary confirmed that he or she confirmed this information to the
                  reporter because thats what I had been told.  [Engel] did indicateyou know, kind
                  of outlined ... that the President did want to go to the Capitol, and Mr. Engel
                  advised that we cannot go, the press secretary testified.  And you know, [President
                  Trump] was agitated, but Mr. Engel advised thatyou know, it was kind of a non-issue.
                  It was agitated verbally, and they proceeded to the White House.  Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of United States Secret Service Employee Press Secretary, (Oct. 31, 2022), pp. 46,
                  50.
               102.   The Select Committee has agreed not to name the Secret Service agent who was driving
                  the vehicle to protect his privacy. We will refer to him in this report as the driver.
                  
               103.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 77;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), pp. 10001.
               104.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), pp. 10001.
               105.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 77.
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 77.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 78.
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 79.
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 78.
                  This recollection of the Presidents phrasing seems very similar to Hutchinsons testimony
                  about President Trumps statement before he took the stage at the Ellipse: Im the
                  President.  Take the Fing mags away.  Theyre not here to hurt me.  Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview
                  of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1112. 
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee, (Nov. 7, 2022), pp.
                  78, 92.
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee, (Nov. 7, 2022), p.
                  78.
               112.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 102. Mr. Engel also did not
                  recall another occasion where testimony indicates that the incident in the presidential
                  vehicle was mentioned. Mr. Engels counsel has asked the Committee not to make certain
                  evidence relating to that occasion public. 
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), pp. 14344, 14748. 
               114.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Secret Service Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 80.
               115.  The Justice Department will have all of the relevant information and can make decisions
                  about whether and how to proceed based upon this evidence. 
               116.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 121.
               117.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 at p. 4 (January
                  6, 2021, PID update at 1:25 p.m.).
               118.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Mark Robinson, (July 7, 2022), pp. 1819.
               119.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 121.
               120.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 125.
               121.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000208061 (January
                  6 2021, email from Robert Engel at 1:55 p.m.).
               122.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 27.
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 27.
               124.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), Photo file 40a8_hi_j0087_0bea.
                  
               125.  Select Committee Interview Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), pp. 2728.
               126.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               127.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               128.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               129.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump). See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000028 (Memorandum
                  from White House Diarist confirming that [t]he Oval Log for January 6, 2021 was not
                  received).
               130.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), p 29 (Why did that change, that you were not taking any records? I dont recall a specific reason.); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 11112 (attributing the lack of recordkeeping to Michaels absence in the White House,
                  though she was present in the Outer Oval during the afternoon); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Austin Ferrer Piran Basualdo, (Apr. 8, 2022), p. 86.  
               131.  H. Rept. 117-216, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena
                  Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st Ssess. (2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt216/CRPT-117hrpt216.pdf; H. Rept. 117-284, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply
                  with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, 117th Cong., 2d sess. (2022), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt284/CRPT-117hrpt284.pdf.
               132.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 118; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 15557.
               133.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), p. 136 (The phones were ringing.  A
                  lot was happening.  I dont recall.); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Austin Ferrer Piran Basualdo,
                  (Apr. 8, 2022), pp. 10910 (I dont remember where I was that afternoon. Do you remember being at the White
                  House that afternoon, even if you dont remember where exactly you were in the White
                  House? No, I do not. Do you remember being home, wherever home is for you, on
                  the afternoon of January 6th, as opposed to being at the White House? No, I dont.
                  So you dont remember whether you were at home or at the White House in the afternoon
                  of January 6th, 2021? Again, that day was very blurry.).
               134.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Shealah Craighead, (June 8, 2022), p. 46.
               135.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Shealah Craighead, (June 8, 2022), p. 46. It is the standard practice
                  of the White House photographers to cover the President from the moment he steps out
                  of the residence until he returns there at the end of the day. Id. at 7. Craighead pushed back, telling Michael that the White House would want to document
                  the day for historical purposes, but Michael did not relent. Id. at p. 28.
               136.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 115 (Well, I saw the President watching TV.).
               137.  Select Committee Interview Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 23.
               138.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 64 (I recall walking in
                  and saying, You have to put out a strong statement condemning violence and asking
                  for peace to be restored.).
               139.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022); See also Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), p. 287.
               140.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 174;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), pp. 12627.
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 129.
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 16970.
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 15960.
               144.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kayleigh McEnany Production), KMC_000000724 (Jan. 6,
                  2021, Kayleigh McEnany notes).
               145.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 8.
               146.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 164.
               147.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 164.
               148.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kayleigh McEnany Production), KMC_000000724 (Jan. 6, 2021, Kayleigh McEnany notes).
               149.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Subpoena to Honorable Kevin McCarthy, (May 12, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/sites/democrats.january6th.house.gov/files/2022-05-12-Subpoena-for%20OGC-McCarthy%20Kevin%20%28002%29.pdf; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Subpoena to Representative Jim Jordan, (May 12, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/sites/democrats.january6th.house.gov/files/2022-05-12-Subpoena-for%20OGC-Jordan%20Jim%20%28002%29.pdf.
               150.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Subpoena to Honorable Kevin McCarthy, (May 12, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/sites/democrats.january6th.house.gov/files/2022-05-12-Subpoena-for%20OGC-McCarthy%20Kevin%20%28002%29.pdf; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Subpoena to Representative Jim Jordan, (May 12, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/sites/democrats.january6th.house.gov/files/2022-05-12-Subpoena-for%20OGC-Jordan%20Jim%20%28002%29.pdf.
               151.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               152.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2020 1:49 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2FizItBeFE6G%22 (archived).
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), p. 144. 
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), p. 145.
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Benjamin Williamson, (Jan. 25, 2022) p. 60. Live feeds of the Capitol
                  began showing pepper spray exchanges between officers and rioters around 1:29 p.m.
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000094153; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000094192; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 40:00, available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               156.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 3637.
               157.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Benjamin Williamson Production), CTRL0000034784 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Benjamin Williamson text message to Mark Meadows at 2:02 p.m. EST); Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition
                  of Benjamin Williamson (Jan. 25, 2022), p. 64.
               158.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 24 (I saw that he
                  was sitting on his couch on his cell phone, same as the morning, where he was just
                  kind of scrolling and typing.).
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 24.
               160.  The Select Committees review of U.S. Capitol Police surveillance footage showed
                  that Proud Boy Dominic Pezzola smashed a Senate Wing window at 2:13 p.m. and rioters
                  entered through that window, as well as an adjacent door, shortly thereafter. See also Third Superseding Indictment at 21, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380 (noting that Dominic Pezzola
                  used [a] riot shield  to break a window of the Capitol at 2:13 p.m. and that
                  [t]he first members of the mob entered the Capitol through this broken window);
                  167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf.
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 25.  Cipollone confirmed
                  that he first went to the dining room when he saw that people had breached the Capitol,
                  they had gotten into the Capitol. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat
                  Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 149.
               162.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 26.
               163.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 26.
               164.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 150.
               165.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 26.
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 26. Cipollone did not
                  elaborate but testified generally that he was very upset about what was happening
                  at the Capitol and wanted action to be taken related to that. Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 149.
               167.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 26.
               168.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Mike+Pence+didn%E2%80%99t+have+%22 (archived).
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27.
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27.
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27. President Trump
                  himself has defended publicly the rioters who chanted Hang Mike Pence! In an interview,
                  journalist Jonathan Karl asked President Trump about the chants.  Well, the people
                  were very angry, he responded.  The President continued:  Because its common sense....
                  How can youif you know a vote is fraudulent, how can you pass a fraudulent vote to
                  Congress? How can you do it? Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), p. 340. 
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27. Hutchinson recalled
                  one other thing that Meadows said, referring to the tweet attacking Vice President
                  Pence: [T]his is the best were going to get for now. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy
                  Hutchinson, (May 17, 2022), p. 17. Hutchinson believes that this conversation took
                  place after the 2:24 p.m. tweet, but the context suggests that it may have taken place
                  after the 2:38 p.m. or 3:13 p.m. tweets.
               173.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 150.
               174.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 150.
               175.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 161.
               176.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 161;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:29:451:31:50, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo.
               177.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000095185.
               178.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000095247.
               179.  Lauren Fox and Clare Foran, GOP Sen. Mike Lee Hands Over Phone Records to House
                  Impeachment Managers, CNN, (Feb. 13, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/02/13/politics/mike-lee-phone-records-impeachment-trial/index.html.
               180.  Mike Lillis, Tuberville Defends Account of Trump Call During Capitol Riot, The Hill, (Feb. 12, 2021), available at https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/538704-tuberville-defends-account-of-trump-call-during-capitol-riot/. Sen. Tuberville stated publicly that the originating number was identified as White
                  House on Sen. Lees phone, suggesting that the call came through the White House
                  Switchboard. Id.
               181.  Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), at p. 287.
               182.  Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), at p. 287.
               183.  Eddie Burkhalter, Tuberville Says He Attended Jan. 5 Fundraiser at Trumps Washington
                  Hotel, Alabama Political Reporter, (Feb. 19, 2021), available at https://www.alreporter.com/2021/02/19/tuberville-says-he-attended-jan-5-fundraiser-at-trumps-washington-hotel/.
               184.  The call likely happened after the evacuation of the House chamber starting at approximately
                  2:38 p.m., and Rep. McCarthy spoke about it to CBS Newss Norah ODonnell by phone
                  between approximately 3:00 to 3:15 p.m. CBS News, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy:
                  I Completely Condemn the Violence in the Capitol, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpBbpqO5qgU.  Molly Michael testified that she recalls receiving the incoming call from Leader
                  McCarthy on Dan Scavinos landline and transferring it to a landline in the dining
                  room.  She does not recall when the call took place, nor did she hear anything about
                  what was discussed.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), pp. 13132.
               185.  House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy: I Completely Condemn the Violence in the
                  Capitol, CBS News, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.cbsnews.com/video/house-minority-leader-kevin-mccarthy-condemn-the-violence/#x.
               186.  House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy: I Completely Condemn the Violence in the
                  Capitol, CBS News, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.cbsnews.com/video/house-minority-leader-kevin-mccarthy-condemn-the-violence/#x.
               187.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/. 
               188.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               189.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               190.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               191.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               192.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               193.  Tommy Christopher, WATCH: GOP Rep Reveals Details of Trumps Bombshell Call with
                  McCarthy Refusing to Call off Capitol Rioters, Mediaite, (Feb. 13, 2021), available
                  at https://www.mediaite.com/news/watch-gop-rep-reveals-details-of-trumps-bombshell-call-with-mccarthy-refusing-to-call-off-capitol-rioters/.
               194.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of John Michael Mick Mulvaney, (July 28, 2022), p. 43.
               195.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 46.
               196.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 46.
               197.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 47.
               198.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), RW_0002307 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Gabriel Roberts text message at 2:49 p.m.).
               199.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 72.
               200.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 68; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 6869.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 70.
               202.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 69 (And she was in there
                  for a few minutes, and then came out and he had issued a tweet.); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 64 (Within, I believe, a few minutes he had issued
                  thathe put out that tweet, a version of that tweet.).  
               203.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:38 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22please+support+our%22 (archived).
               204.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 8789.
               205.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 88.
               206.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kayleigh McEnany Production), KMC_000000724, (January
                  6, 2021, Kayleigh McEnany Notes); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022),
                  p. 185.
               207.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 8889; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 185.
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               210. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               211.  Carol Leonnig and Philip Rucker, I Alone Can Fix It: Donald J. Trumps Catastrophic Final Year (New York: Penguin, 2021), p. 474.
               212.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 91.
               213.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p 141.
               214.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), p. 170.
               215.  Bob Woodward and Robert Costa, Peril, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 248.
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), p. 32.  
               217.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), p. 30. 
               218.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 37; Hutchinson recalls
                  that Meadows, Herschmann, Ivanka Trump, and others would come and go from the Chief
                  of Staffs office at intervals throughout the afternoon.  I dont know if it was
                  for a breather or to have a conversation away from the dining room, she said. Id., at 31.
               219.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 38.
               220.  Fox News, U.S. Capitol on Lockdown as Protests Threaten Security, YouTube, Jan.
                  6, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFWGBnJ0rQA.
               221.  Fox News, Breaking News: Protestors Now inside U.S. Capitol, YouTube, at 2:40,
                  Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.fox29.com/video/887421.
               222.  Fox News, Pro-Trump Protestors Storm U.S. Capitol, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVPSYr-xG6s.
               223.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000095389.
               224.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000095393 (Jan. 6,
                  2021, text between Secret Service agents at 2:41 p.m. EST).
               225.  Marshall Cohen and Avery Lotz, The January 6 Insurrection: Minute-by-Minute, CNN,
                  (July 29, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/07/10/politics/jan-6-us-capitol-riot-timeline/index.html.
               226.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000241 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  note to President Trump).
               227.  Select Committee Interview Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), pp. 4647.
               228.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014921, MM014923, MM014926.
               229.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014906. Recently, Representative
                  Greene has qualified her stance on armed rioters at the Capitol. At a Young Republicans
                  event in New York, she said: I got to tell you something, if Steve Bannon and I had
                  oganized [January 6th], we would have won. Not to mention, it wouldve been armed.
                  She claims she was joking. Aaron Blake, Analysis: Marjorie Taylor Greenes Jan. 6
                  Joke Has Been Building for a Long Time, Washington Post, (Dec. 12, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/12/12/greene-january-6-punchline/. 
               230.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014907, MM014908, MM014909,
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Laura Ingraham text message to Mark Meadows at 2:32 pm); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014911 (Jan. 6, 2021, Laura Ingraham text
                  message to Mark Meadows at 2:32 p.m.).
               231.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014912.
               232.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014914, MM014915.
               233.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014921.
               234.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014922.
               235.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014919.
               236.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014923.
               237.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014925.
               238.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014926.
               239.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014928.
               240.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000240 (January 6,
                  2021 proposed statement).
               241.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               242.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               243.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               244.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:13 p.m. EST, available at
                  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22remain+peaceful%22 (archived).
               245.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 119.
               246.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack at the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 88.
               247.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 88; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 172; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony
                  Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 155.
               248.  Pergram: Most Significant Breach of Government Institution Since 1814, Fox News,
                  Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.foxnews.com/video/6220760122001#sp=show-clips.
               249.  Fox News, Individual Shot in U.S. Capitol, YouTube, at 1:59, Jan. 6, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oL-M0LuE3Hk.
               250.  Andy McCarthy Blasts Pro-Trump Protesters after Breach at Capitol, Fox News, at
                  1:28, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.foxnews.com/video/6220757649001#sp=show-clips.
               251.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014932, MM014934.
               252.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014935. This was sent from
                  a phone number associated with Priebuss family member.
               253.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014936.
               254.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014937.
               255.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014939.
               256.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014943.
               257.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014944.
               258.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014947.
               259.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014948.
               260.  Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014949.
               261.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014956, MM014957.
               262.  Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014961.
               263.  Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014964.
               264.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               265.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; see also CBS News, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy: I completely condemn the violence
                  in the Capitol, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpBbpqO5qgU.
               266.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               267.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 22, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 163.
               268.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 4:17 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2FPm2PKV0Fp3%22 (archived).
               269.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               270.  Bill Hemmer Reports, Fox News, at 3:56 p.m. ET, available at https://archive.org/details/FOXNEWSW_20210106_200000_Bill_Hemmer_Reports/start/3360/end/3420 (archived).
               271.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 16263.
               272.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 162.
               273.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), Video file 40983.
               274.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               275.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 234. President Trump did not react
                  to her suggestion, McEnany said. See id.  
               276.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 161; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric
                  Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 9799.
               277.  Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 4:17 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2FPm2PKV0Fp3%22 (archived).
               278.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), Photo file 4243_hi_j0233_61ae.
                  
               279.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 182. See Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Interview of White House Employee,
                  (June 10, 2022), pp. 4950 (remembering that someone in the Rose Garden told the President
                  something along the lines that he needed to use stronger, more forceful language
                  in the video).
               280.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 99.  
               281.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 181.  
               282.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:58:30, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo.
               283.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.  ([A]s soon as that come out, everybody started talking about it and thatsit
                  seemed like it started to disperse.).
               284.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6h Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th (Basically, when President Trump put his tweet out. We literally left right after
                  that [had] come out.).
               285.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022),
                  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.  ([I]f he would have done that earlier in the day, 1:30, Iyou know, we wouldnt
                  be in thismaybe we wouldnt be in this bad of a situation or something.).
               286.  Bill Hemmer Reports, Fox News, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://archive.org/details/FOXNEWSW_20210106_200000_Bill_Hemmer_Reports/start/780/end/840.
               287.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2020 6:01 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22these+are+the+things+and+events%22 (archived).
               288. 
               289.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 53.
               290.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives production), Photo file 364c_hi_j0246_2fa8.
               291.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 53.
               292.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               293.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               294.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               295.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               296.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022).
               297.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022);
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               298.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               299.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022).
               300.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022).
               301.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022).
               302.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               303.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               304.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production,
                  Feb. 9, 2022).
               305.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 206. (You were leaving messages
                  or having phone calls with United States Senators about the joint session of Congress.
                  How could that possibly be [a] privileged conversation? Because the conversation
                  is about the theory of the case, and my representation of the client.).
               306.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 207.
               307.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 206; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Robert OBrien Production), NSA 0040 (January 6, 2021, text message from Sen. Mike
                  Lee to Robert OBrien at 10:55 p.m. EST reading, You cant make this up.  I just
                  got this voice message [from] Rudy Giuliani, who apparently thought he was calling
                  Senator Tuberville. Youve got to listen to that message. Rudy is walking malpractice.).
               308.  Steve Hayes, Giuliani to Senator: Try to Just Slow it Down, The Dispatch, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://thedispatch.com/p/giuliani-to-senator-try-to-just-slow. 
               309.  Steve Hayes, Giuliani to Senator: Try to Just Slow it Down, The Dispatch, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://thedispatch.com/p/giuliani-to-senator-try-to-just-slow. 
               310.  Those 13 people are Pat Cipollone, Dan Scavino, Kurt Olsen, Mark Martin, Cleta Mitchell,
                  Rudy Giuliani, Kayleigh McEnany, Jason Miller, Mark Meadows, Steve Bannon, Eric Herschmann,
                  Sean Hannity, and John McEntee. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives
                  Production), P-R000261 (Jan. 6, 2021, the Presidential Call Log). 
               311.  H. Rept. 117-152, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Stephen K. Bannon in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly
                  Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st sess. (2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt152/CRPT-117hrpt152.pdf; H. Rept. 117-216, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena
                  Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st sess. (2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt216/CRPT-117hrpt216.pdf; H. Rept. 117284, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply
                  with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, 117th Cong., 2d sess. (2022), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt284/CRPT-117hrpt284.pdf; Erik Larson, Lawyer Who Talked to Trump on Day of Capitol Riot Sues over Subpoena,
                  Bloomberg, (Mar. 25, 2022), available at https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-25/lawyer-who-talked-to-trump-on-day-of-mob-riot-sues-over-subpoena (discussing Kurt Olsen); Caleb Ecarma, Sean Hannity Wants the January 6 Committee
                  to Believe Hes a Journalist, Vanity Fair, (Jan. 5, 2022), available at https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2022/01/sean-hannity-january-6-committee-journalist.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 118; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 195.
               313.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Cleta Mitchell, (May 18, 2022), p. 131; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani,
                  (May 20, 2022), p. 211.
               314.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump); WATCH: Lets Get Back to Work, Pence
                  Urges Senate, PBS, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/watch-lets-get-back-to-work-pence-urges-senate.
               315.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               316.  Olsen authored a memo urging Vice President Pence to adjourn the joint session of
                  Congress without counting electoral votes. See Documents on file with the Select Committee on the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Chapman University Production) Chapman004979 (Jan. 2, 2021, Kurt Olsen
                  Draft Memorandum Entitled, The Role of the Vice President in Receiving Votes from
                  the Electoral College.) Martin advised President Trump that Vice President Pence
                  possessed the constitutional authority to impede the electoral count. See Nicholas Fandos, Peter Baker, and Maggie Haberman, House Moves to Force Trump Out,
                  Vowing Impeachment if Pence Wont Act, New York Times, (Jan. 10, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/10/us/politics/trump-impeachment.html. Both corresponded with John Eastman and others regarding plans to convene alternate
                  electors in states won by Joe Biden. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman023998 (Dec.
                  6, 2020, Michael Farris email forwarding an email concerning the Importance of Republican
                  Electors in AZ, GA, MI, NV, PA and WI Voting on Dec 14 at 1:54 p.m. ET). President
                  Trump asked to speak with Mr. Olsen and Mr. Martin before he left the dining room.
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007401_00001
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Molly Michael email to MBX WHO MA Joint White House Switchboard at
                  11:28 p.m. ET).
               317.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               318.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump). Mitchell declined to discuss her conversations
                  with President Trump on attorney-client privilege grounds.  She did, however, acknowledge
                  that following the phone call, she took steps to dismiss the Presidents pending election
                  suit in Georgia. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Cleta Mitchell, (May 18, 2022), p. 131.
               319.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000259 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Daily Diary of the President Donald J. Trump); Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann,
                  (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 118 (Herschmann refused to answer questions about the phone call,
                  citing executive privilege).
               320.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255P-R000259 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               321.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255P-R000259 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               322.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255P-R000259 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               323.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255P-R000259 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               324.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255P-R000259 (Jan.
                  6, 2021, Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump).
               325.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 25859.
               326.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 258.
               327.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 258.
               328.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee (Mar. 28, 2022), pp. 16061; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), P-R000259 (Jan. 6, 2021, Daily Diary of the President
                  Donald J. Trump).
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), p. 161.
               330.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), p. 161.
               331.  Insert: Documents on file with the Select Committee (National Archives Production),
                  P-R000259 (Jan. 6, 2021, Daily Diary of the President Donald J. Trump).
               332.  Documents with file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  The Daily Diary of President Donald J. Trump). 
               333.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 4243.  
               334.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 17980.
               335.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 180.
               336.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Patrick MacDonnell Production), PM000158 (Jan. 7, 2021,
                  Patrick MacDonnell text message to personal contact at 9:46 p.m. EST).
               337.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ali Alexander Production), CTRL0000017719, p. 3; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition
                  of Ali Alexander, (Dec. 9, 2021), p. 57.
               338.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_042.
               339.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_040.
               340.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0717 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Brad Parscale text message to Katrina Pierson at 7:14 p.m. ET).
               341.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0718KPierson20
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Brad Parscale text message to Katrina Pierson at 7:22 p.m. ET).
