            3
            FAKE ELECTORS AND THE THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE STRATEGY
            On the morning of January 6th, in his speech at the Ellipse, President Trump exhorted
               his thousands of assembled supporters to march to the U.S. Capitol, explaining that
               [w]e have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors
               who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated.1 This was no off-the-cuff remark; it was the culmination of a carefully planned scheme
               many weeks in the making. This plea by the President turned the truth on its head.
               There was only one legitimate slate of electors from the battleground States of Arizona,
               Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, and Trump wanted
               them rejected. This scheme involved lawyers, such as Kenneth Chesebro and Rudy Giuliani,
               as well as Mark Meadows.  It also was aided at key points by Chairwoman of the Republican
               National Committee Ronna McDaniel, Members of Congress, and Republican leaders across
               seven Statessome of whom did not know exactly what they were being asked to do. President
               Trump oversaw it himself.
            President Trump and his allies prepared their own fake slates of electoral college
               electors in seven States that President Trump lost: Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada,
               New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. And on December 14, 2020the date when true,
               certified electors were meeting to cast their electoral votes for the candidate who
               had won the popular vote in each of those Statesthese fake electors also met, ostensibly
               casting electoral votes for President Trump, the candidate who had lost.
            There was no legitimate reason for Trump electors to meet, vote, and produce fake
               slates on December 14th in States that former Vice President Biden won. Instead, this
               effort was aimed directly at the President of the Senate (which, under the Constitution,
               is the Vice President) in his role at the joint session of Congress on January 6th.
               President Trump and his advisors wanted Vice President Pence to disregard real electoral
               college votes for former Vice President Biden, in favor of these fake competing electoral
               slates.
            But there never were real, competing slates of electors. By the time the fake Trump
               electors met on December 14th, appropriate government officials in each of the seven
               States had already certified their States official election results for former Vice
               President Biden. No court had issued an order reversing or calling into question those
               results, and most election-related litigation was over. And as detailed in Chapter
               2, despite the illicit efforts of President Trump and his allies, no State legislature
               had agreed to the Presidents request to reverse the result of the election by appointing
               a different slate of electors.
            Given all of this, these groups of Trump backers who called themselves Presidential
               electors were never actually electors, and the votes they purported to cast on December
               14th were not valid. They were fake. They had no legal standing, and their fake votes
               could not have been used by Vice President Pence to disregard the real votes of electors
               chosen by the voters.
            By January 6th, President Trump had been discouraged by his top lawyers from following
               through on this plan. The Trump Campaigns senior staff attorneys had concerns,2 and several days before the joint session, the Acting Attorney General and the Deputy
               Attorney General blocked the sending of a letter indicating that there were competing
               slates of electors, including in Georgia and several other States.3 But this reasoning did nothing to change President Trumps rhetoric or plan. He continued
               to assert that there were competing or dual slates of electors to create an opportunity
               to stay in office on January 6th.4
            These lawyers were right: President Trumps plan was illegal. In his June 7, 2022,
               opinion, Federal District Judge David Carter wrote that this initiative to certify
               alternate slates of electors for President Trump constituted a critical objective
               of the January 6 plan.5  This followed Judge Carters earlier determination in March that [t]he illegality
               of the plan was obvious, and [e]very Americanand certainly the President of the
               United Statesknows that in a democracy, leaders are elected, not installed. With
               a plan this BOLD, President Trump knowingly tried to subvert this fundamental principle.
               Based on the evidence the Court finds it more likely than not that President Trump
               corruptly attempted to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.6
            The fake elector effort was an unlawful, unprecedented and destructive break from
               the electoral college process that our country has used to select its President for
               generations.7 It led directly to the violence that occurred on January 6th. To address the damage
               that it caused, it is important to understand how it transpired.
            3.1 Laying the Groundwork for the Fake Elector Plan: The Chesebro Memos
            The fake elector plan emerged from a series of legal memoranda written by an outside
               legal advisor to the Trump Campaign: Kenneth Chesebro. Although John Eastman would
               have a more prominent role in advising President Trump in the days immediately before
               January 6th, Chesebroan attorney based in Boston and New York recruited to assist
               the Trump Campaign as a volunteer legal advisorwas central to the creation of the
               plan.8 Memos by Chesebro on November 18th, December 9th, and December 13th, as discussed
               below, laid the plans foundation.
            Chesebros first memo on November 18th suggested that the Trump Campaign could gain
               a few extra weeks for litigation to challenge Wisconsins election results, so long
               as a Wisconsin slate of Republican nominees to the electoral college met on December
               14th to cast placeholder electoral college votes on a contingent basis.9 This memo acknowledged that [i]t may seem odd that the electors pledged to Trump
               and Pence might meet and cast their votes on December 14 even if, at that juncture,
               the Trump-Pence ticket is behind in the vote count, and no certificate of election
               has been issued in favor of Trump and Pence.10 However, Chesebro argued that if such a slate of alternate electors gathered to cast
               electoral votes on a contingent basis, this would preserve the Trump Campaigns options
               so a court decision (or, perhaps, a state legislative determination) rendered after
               December 14 in favor of the Trump-Pence slate of electors should be timely.11
            On December 9th, Chesebro penned a second memo, which suggested another purpose for
               fake electoral college votes on January 6th. It stated that unauthorized Trump electors
               in these States could be retroactively recognized by a court, the state legislature,
               or Congress.12 Under this theory, there would be no need for a court to decide that the election
               had been decided in error; instead, Congress itself could choose among dueling slates
               of purported electoral votesand thereby decide the Presidential electioneven though
               Article II of the Constitution grants that power to the electoral college via the
               States.13
            Chesebros contemporaneous communications make clear that the goal was having Congress
               act on the fake electoral votes. He emailed an organizer of the fake electors in Nevada
               that the purpose of having the electoral votes sent in to Congress is to provide
               the opportunity to debate the election irregularities in Congress, and to keep alive
               the possibility that the votes could be flipped to Trump . . .14 And a legal advisor to the Arizona GOP reportedly described being told by Chesebro
               around this time that their supposed electors would just be sending in fake electoral
               votes to Pence so that someone in Congress can make an objection when they start
               counting votes, and start arguing that the fake votes should be counted.15
            Many of the States contested by the Trump team had laws that specified requirements
               for electors to validly cast and transmit their votesand the December 9, 2020, memo
               recognized that some of these criteria would be difficult, if not impossible, for
               the fake electors to fulfill. (As described later, most were not fulfilled.) For example,
               Nevada State law required that the secretary of state preside when Presidential electors
               meet,16 and Nevada Secretary of State Barbara Cegavske, a Republican, had already signed
               a certificate ascertaining the Biden/Harris electors as the authorized, winning slate.17 Several States also had rules requiring electors to cast their votes in the State
               capitol building, or rules governing the process for approving substitutes if any
               original proposed electors from the November ballot were unavailable. As a result,
               Chesebros December 9, 2020, memo advised the Trump Campaign to abide by such rules,
               when possible, but also recognized that these slates could be slightly problematic
               in Michigan, somewhat dicey in Georgia and Pennsylvania, and very problematic
               in Nevada.18
            On December 13th, the fake elector scheme became even clearer in an email sent by
               Chesebro to Giuliani. His message was entitled Brief notes on President of the Senate
               strategy. It addressed how the fake electors meeting the next day, December 14th, could be exploited during the joint session of Congress on January
               6th by the President of the Senatea role that the Constitution grants to the Vice
               President of the United States.19 Chesebro argued that, on January 6th, the President of the Senate could:
            . . . firmly take the position that he, and he alone, is charged with the constitutional
               responsibility not just to open the votes, but to count themincluding making judgments
               about what to do if there are conflicting votes . . .20
            Chesebros email suggested that the President of the Senate (which, under the Constitution,
               is the Vice President) could toss out former Vice President Bidens actual electoral
               votes for any State where the Trump Campaign organized fake electors, simply because
               there are two slates of votes.21 Of course, there were never two slates of electoral votes, so this premise itself
               was fundamentally wrong.  But he was arguing that even if votes by fake electors were
               never retroactively ratified under State law, their mere submission to Congress would
               be enough to allow the presiding officer to disregard valid votes for former Vice
               President Biden.22 Chesebro suggested this might result in a second term for President Trump, or, at
               minimum, it would force a debate about purported election fraudneither of which was
               a lawful, legitimate reason to organize and convene fake electors.23
            As discussed below and in Chapter 5, John Eastman worked with Chesebro as January
               6th approached and wrote two additional memos that built upon, and extended, the plan
               to use the fake electoral votes during the joint session.24
            3.2 President Trump and the Campaign Adopt the Fake Elector Scheme 
            In early December, the highest levels of the Trump Campaign took note of Chesebros
               fake elector plan and began to operationalize it. On December 6th, White House Chief
               of Staff Mark Meadows forwarded a copy of Chesebros November 18, 2020, memo to Trump
               Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller writing, Lets have a discussion about this
               tomorrow.25 Miller replied that he just engaged with reporters on the subject, to which Meadows
               wrote: If you are on it then never mind the meeting. We just need to have someone coordinating the electors for states.26 Miller clarified that he had only been working the PR angle and they should still
               meet, to which Meadows answered: Got it.27 Later that week, Miller sent Meadows a spreadsheet that the Trump Campaign had compiled.28 It listed contact information for nearly all of the 79 GOP nominees to the electoral
               college on the November ballot for Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania,
               and Wisconsin.29 And on December 8th, Meadows received a text message from a former State legislator
               in Louisiana recommending that the proposed Trump electors from AR [sic] MI GA PA
               WI NV all meet next Monday at their state capitols[,] [c]all themselves to order,
               elect officers, and cast their votes for the President. . . . Then they certify their
               votes and transmit that certificate to Washington.30 Meadows replied: We are.31
            Cassidy Hutchinson, a Special Assistant to the President and an assistant to Chief
               of Staff Mark Meadows, confirmed Meadowss significant involvement in the plan. Hutchinson
               told the Select Committee that Meadows followed the progress of the fake elector effort
               closely and that she remember[ed] him frequently having calls, meetings, and outreach
               with individuals and this just being a prominent topic of discussion in our office.
               When asked how many of his calls or meetings it came up in, she estimated [d]ozens.32
            The evidence indicates that by December 7th or 8th, President Trump had decided to
               pursue the fake elector plan and was driving it.  Trump Campaign Associate General
               Counsel Joshua Findlay was tasked by the campaigns general counsel, Matthew Morgan,
               around December 7th or 8th with exploring the feasibility of assembling unrecognized
               slates of Trump electors in a handful of the States that President Trump had lost.33 Findlay told the Select Committee it was my understanding that the President made
               this decision. . . .34 As recounted by Findlay, Morgan conveyed that the clientPresident Trumpdirected
               the campaign lawyers to look into electors in these potential litigation States[.]35
            
                  Ronna McDaniel at the Republican National Convention on August 24, 2020.
                  (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
               
            
            President Trump personally called RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel days before
               December 14th to enlist the RNCs assistance in the scheme.36 President Trump opened the call by introducing McDaniel to John Eastman, who described
               the importance of the RNC helping the campaign to gather these contingent electors
               in case any of the legal challenges that were ongoing changed the results in any of
               the States.37 According to McDaniel, she called President Trump back soon after the call ended,
               letting him know that she agreed to his request and that some RNC staffers were already
               assisting.38
            On December 13th and 14th, President Trump worked with Rudolph Giuliani on the plans
               implementation. On the 13th, Miller texted some of his colleagues to check in about
               the fake elector meetings scheduled for the following day. He let them know that Giuliani
               had told him POTUS was aware that they would be filing litigation in four States
               just to keep the effort goingwhich the Select Committee believes was to create
               a pretext to claim that it was still possible for the fake electors to be authorized
               retroactively.39 (In subsequent litigation, a Federal district court found that President Trump filed
               certain lawsuits not to obtain legal relief, but to disrupt or delay the January 6th
               congressional proceedings through the courts.40) The next day, Miller sent an email asking whether they were going to issue a press
               release about electors, and he was told the Mayor [is] going to discuss with POTUS.41
            3.3 The Campaign Legal Team Bows Out, and Giuliani Steps In
            
                  Rudy Giuliani speaks inside the Republican National Committee Headquarters in November
                     about various lawsuits related to the 2020 election.
                  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
               
            
            Not everyone on the campaign was eager to pursue the fake elector plan. On December
               11th, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected a high-profile lawsuit filed by the State of
               Texas challenging the election results in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Michigan, and Wisconsin.42 After that decision, the Trump Campaigns senior legal staffers said that they reduced
               their involvement in the fake elector effort, apparently because there was no longer
               a feasible scenario in which a court would determine that President Trump actually
               won any of the States he contested.43 Justin Clark, who oversaw the Trump Campaigns general counsels office, said that
               he basically conveyed, Im out, and encouraged his colleagues on the legal team
               to do the same.44 Findlay told the Select Committee that we backed out of this thing, and Morgan,
               his boss, said he had Findlay pass off responsibility for the electors as my way
               of taking that responsibility to zero.45
            Clark told the Select Committee that it never sat right with me that there was no
               . . . contingency whereby these votes would count.46  I had real problems with the process, Clark said, because it morphed into something
               I didnt agree with.47 In his view, the fake electors were not necessarily duly nominated electors despite
               being presented as such.48 He said he believed he warned his colleagues that unless we have litigation pending
               like in these States, like I dont think this is appropriate or, you know, this isnt
               the right thing to do.49
            Morgan told the Select Committee that he saw no value in pushing slates of purported
               electors if they were not authorized by a State governments certificate of ascertainment.
               As he put it, [M]y view was, as long as you didnt have a certificate of ascertainment,
               then the electors were, for lack of a better way of saying it, no good or notnot
               valid.50 Findlay confirmed that Morgan told him after the Supreme Court ruling on December
               11th that theres not really anything left for us to do on this project and that
               it doesnt seem like a good idea for us to be involved in it.51
            Campaign lawyers were not the only ones who doubted the legality of the fake elector
               plan. The Office of White House Counsel appears to have expressed concerns about it,
               as well.  In his testimony to the Select Committee, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone
               acknowledged his view that by mid-December, the electoral process was done. Cipollone
               told the Select Committee that the White House Counsels office probably had discussions
               about the electors plan and that his Deputy, Pat Philbin, would have been involved
               in evaluating the electors issue.52  In an informal Committee interview, Philbin described the fake elector scheme as
               one of the bad theories that were like Whac-A-Mole in the White House during this
               period.53  Mr. Cipollone agreed with this characterization.54
            In her testimony, Cassidy Hutchinson testified that she heard at least one member
               of the White House Counsels Office say that the plan was not legal:
            Committee Staff: . . . to be clear, did you hear the White House Counsels Office
               say that this plan to have alternate electors meet and cast votes for Donald Trump
               in States that he had lost was not legally sound?
            Hutchinson: Yes, sir.55  
            She also recalled a meeting that took place in or before mid-December during which
               this view was relayed to Giuliani and members of his team by lawyers in the White
               House Counsels Office.56
            By December 11th, Findlay emailed his main points of contact in six battleground States
               to say [t]hank you for your work on the presidential elector project and, in order
               to pass off his responsibilities, let them know that Rudys team has designated Kenneth
               Chesebro as the point person for the legal documents going forward.57
            While the campaigns core legal team stepped back from the fake elector effort on
               December 11th, it nonetheless went forward because Rudy was in charge of [it] and
               [t]his is what he wanted to do, according to Findlay.58 When Findlay was asked if this decision to let the effort proceed under Giulianis
               direction was coming from your client, the President, Findlay responded: Yes, I
               believe so. I mean, he had made it clear that Rudy was in charge of this and that
               Rudy was executing what he wanted.59 Findlay also recalled being told that Chesebros elector memos had become the justification
               for why Rudy and Ken were going to keep going forward with this stuff.60 He explained that Giuliani really bought into Kens theory on this, and that the
               two of them were kind of the main ones driving this from that point forward.61 Clark told the Select Committee that . . . my understanding of who was driving the
               process . . . was Mayor Giuliani and his team.62 On December 10th, when Kenneth Chesebro emailed one of the State party officials
               involved in organizing the fake elector effort in Nevada, he reported that I spoke
               this evening with Mayor Guiliani [sic], who is focused on doing everything possible
               to ensure that that [sic] all the Trump-Pence electors vote on Dec. 14.63
            In the days that followed this handoff, Chesebro would draft and distribute documents
               intended for use in the Trump teams fake elector ceremonies that were then shared
               with key contacts in Arizona,64 Georgia,65 Michigan,66 Nevada,67 New Mexico,68 Pennsylvania,69 and Wisconsin.70 He also gave some of the groups step-by-step logistical guidance, such as when and
               where they should convene, how many copies each person would need to sign, and to
               send their fake votes to Congress via registered mail.71 Pretty Simple! he commented in some of these emails.72
            A campaign operative named Michael Roman was also tapped for a major operational role
               in the fake elector effort. When Findlay sent his email handing off certain responsibilities
               for the initiative, he also wrote that Giulianis team had designated Roman as the
               lead for executing the voting on Monday December 14th.73 Roman was the Trump Campaigns Director of Election Day Operations (EDO), with team
               members who specialized in political outreach and mobilization in battleground States
               where the Trump team now urgently needed the fake electors to meet on December 14th.
            With help from his EDO staff, as well as Giulianis team and RNC staffers working
               alongside the Campaign as part of the Trump Victory Committee, Roman ran an improvised
               Electors Whip Operation.74 For example, Roman sent an email on December 12th directing an aide to create a
               tracker for the electors with tabs for Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania,
               and Wisconsin, listing contact information, whether they had been contacted, whether
               they agreed to attend on December 14th, and names of [s]ubstitute electors to replace
               any reticent or unavailable participants as needed.75 Roman referred to others on this email as the WHIP TEAM and directed them to fill
               out the spreadsheet, to update him on what you have and what you need, and to plan
               on a call that evening.76
            In the days that followed, this group focused on tracking which Republicans previously
               named as President Trumps nominees to the electoral college would be willing to show
               up for fake elector ceremonies, finding adequate substitutes for those who refused
               to attend, and actually coordinating the unrecognized elector signing ceremonies in
               seven States on December 14th.77 In all seven States, these efforts to mobilize fake electors benefitted from support
               from the RNC, as well as the State Republican parties.78 However, it was the Trump team who drove the process from start to finish, as one
               of the fake electors and later co-chair of the Michigan Republican party, Meshawn
               Maddock, told an audience in January 2022: We fought to seat the electors. The Trump
               campaign asked us to do that.79  
            3.4 Some of the Proposed Fake Electors Express Concerns About the Plan
            The Trump teams fake elector plan raised concerns not just for several senior officials
               but also for some of the Republican activists being recruited to be the fake electors.
               Findlay told the Select Committee that there were definitely electors in probably
               most of the States that had concerns about this process.80 After being tasked with reaching out to the potential fake electors, Findlay notified
               his colleagues on December 10th that a lot of questions are arising from them.81 He also noted that an RNC staffer seconded to the Trump Victory Committee requested
               a call with the PA electors and/or leadership to address concerns, which may be
               necessary to get people to appear.82
            The Republican Party of Pennsylvanias general counsel relayed several specific concerns
               to the Trump Campaign via email on December 13th. Warning that [w]ere all getting
               call [sic] from concerned Electors, he elaborated as follows:
            Im told that on the call with the Electors they were told that the Ballot form would
               be conditioned upon ultimate certification by the Governor, indemnification by the
               campaign if someone gets sued or worse, (charged with something by the AG or someone
               else), and the receipt by the Electors of a legal opinion by a national firm and certified
               to be accurate by a Pa. lawyer.
            What was sent was a memo by Chesebro not addressed to the Electors, and no certification
               by a Pa. lawyer. To make it worse, Chesebro describes the Pa. plan as dicey. And
               theres no indication by anyone with authority that theres any indemnification authorized
               by the campaign.83
            Pennsylvania GOP Chairman Lawrence Tabas informed the Select Committee that his States
               fake electors never were indemnified by the Trump Campaign.84
            When Wisconsin Republican Party Chairman Andrew Hitt was notified in late November
               that the campaign wants to [sic] list of electors, he texted his executive director
               that I am def concerned about their inquiry and that I hope they are not planning
               on asking us to do anything like try and say we are only the proper electors.85 On December 12th, after Hitt received a message about a phone call with Giuliani
               to discuss the fake elector issue, he texted a colleague: These guys are up to no
               good and its [sic] gonna fail miserably.86 Despite such concerns, Hitt and many other fake electors participated anyway.87
            Even so, 14 of the original Republicans who had been listed as electoral college nominees
               on the November ballot bowed out when the fake Trump electors gathered in December.88 Former Michigan Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land declined to attend, which the
               States GOP chair, Laura Cox, told the Select Committee was because I think she just
               said she was uncomfortable with the whole thing and that she has her own beliefs.89 A senior advisor for the Pennsylvania GOP said that Chairman Tabas did not serve
               as an elector because Joe Biden won the election and it was Bidens electors that
               were certified.90 Former U.S. Representative Tom Marino (RPA) said he backed out because Im a constitutionalist,
               and as a former prosecutor, when the attorney general says that hes not finding
               anything there, thats good enough for me.91 The other eleven dropouts included a Georgia State lawmaker, a former State party
               chair from New Mexico, two former State party chairs from Pennsylvania, and Pennsylvanias
               RNC national committeewoman.92
            Other participants asserted that they would have had much greater concerns if the
               Trump team had been more forthcoming about how the fake electoral votes would be used.93 The Trump Campaigns director of election day operations in Georgia told the Select
               Committee that I absolutely would not have wanted to participate in organizing the
               Trump teams fake electors in Georgia had I known that the three main lawyers for
               the campaign that Id spoken to in the past and were leading up were not on board.94 He said he felt angry because no one really cared ifif people were potentially
               putting themselves in jeopardy by doing this, and we were just . . . useful idiots
               or rubes at that point.95
            3.5 On December 14th, The Fake Electors Meet and Vote 
            
            On December 14th, using instructions provided by Chesebro, the fake Trump electors
               gathered and participated in signing ceremonies in all seven States. In five of these
               StatesArizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, and Wisconsinthe certificates they signed
               used the language that falsely declared themselves to be the duly elected and qualified
               Electors from their State.96 This declaration was false because none of the signatories had been granted that
               official status by their State government in the form of a certificate of ascertainment.
            The paperwork signed by the fake Trump electors in two other States contained partial
               caveats. In New Mexico, the document they signed made clear that they were participating
               on the understanding that it might later be determined that we are the duly elected
               and qualified Electors. . . .97 In Pennsylvania, the document they signed indicated that they were participating
               on the understanding that if, as a result of a final non-appealable Court Order or
               other proceeding prescribed by law, we are ultimately recognized as being the duly
               elected and qualified Electors. . . .98
            All seven of these invalid sets of electoral votes were then transmitted to Washington,
               DC. Romans team member in Georgia, for example, sent him an email on the afternoon
               of December 14th that affirmed the following: All votes cast, paperwork complete,
               being mailed now. Ran pretty smoothly.99 Likewise, Findlay updated Campaign Manager Bill Stepien and his bosses on the legal
               team that the Trump teams slate in Georgia was not able to satisfy all provisions
               of State law but still voted as legally as possible under the circumstances before
               transmitting their fake votes to Washington, DC, by mail.100 
            On the evening of December 14th, RNC Chairwoman McDaniel provided an update for President
               Trump on the status of the fake elector effort. She forwarded President Trumps executive
               assistant an Elector Recap email, which conveyed that President Trumps electors
               voted not just in the states that he won but also in six contested states (specifically,
               Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin).101 Minutes later, President Trumps executive assistant replied: Its in front of him!102
            The Trump team and the fake electors also engaged in acts of subterfuge to carry out
               their plans on December 14th. For instance, a campaign staffer notified the Georgia
               participants via email that he must ask for your complete discretion.103 He explained that their efforts required complete secrecy, and told them to arrive
               at the State capitol building and please state to the guards that you are attending
               a meeting with either Senator Brandon Beach or Senator Burt Jones.104 Indeed, Greg Bluestein of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported that he tried to enter this groups meeting room but [a] guy at the door
               called it an education meeting and scrambled when I tried to walk in.105
            Former Michigan GOP Chair Laura Cox told the Select Committee that an attorney who
               said he was working with the Presidents Campaign informed her that the Michigan
               slate for President Trump was planning to meet in the capit[o]l and hide overnight
               so that they could fulfill the role of casting their vote in, per law, in the Michigan
               chambers.106 She said that she told him in no uncertain terms that that was insane and inappropriate,
               and that she warned Michigans senate majority leader as a precaution.107 Instead, the group of fake electors in Michigan signed their paperwork in the State
               GOP headquarters, where staff told them not to bring phones inside.108
            3.6 The Fallout from the Fake Elector Plan
            In spite of the Trump Campaigns efforts to give the fake electors votes the sheen
               of authenticity, they failed. The U.S. Senate Parliamentarian noted in correspondence
               by January 3rd that materials from the Trump teams supposed electors in Arizona,
               Georgia, Nevada, New Mexico, and Pennsylvania had no seal of the state and no evidence
               votes were delivered by the executive of the state for signature by electors,109 and, as a result, these materials failed to meet requirements of federal law. Similarly,
               the Senate Parliamentarian noted that the Trump teams slates from Georgia, New Mexico,
               and Pennsylvania appeared to violate another statute which requires the approval of
               the Governor for the substitution of electors.110 Meanwhile, the documents from Michigan and Wisconsin did not even arrive to Congress
               on time, so they also had missed the required statutory deadline.111  
            Several of the Trump teams fake electoral slates also failed to follow State rules
               specifying where they were required to meet. In Georgia and Wisconsin, State lawmakers
               or their staff appear to have helped participants gather inside their State capitols.112 But in Michigan, the fake Trump electors were blocked from entering the State capitol
               building.113 Despite this, they still signed documents attesting that they convened and organized
               in the State Capitol, in the City of Lansing, Michigan, and at 2:00 p.m. . . . performed
               the duties enjoined upon us.114 That document had been signed earlier in the day off-site, and one of the signatories
               even told the Committee she didnt join their march to the State capitol building
               because she didnt see a need to go.115
            If the entire premise of the fake votes was not enough, these infirmities also meant
               that they had no legal relevance. In no way could they ever have been used by the
               Vice President to disregard the real votes of electors chosen by the voters.
            In the weeks between December 14th and January 6th, President Trumps team continued
               to embrace the idea that the fake electoral votes had a purpose. Although Giuliani
               and White House speechwriter Stephen Miller made public comments on December 14th
               suggesting that the uncertified Trump votes were merely contingent, that pretense
               was dropped in short order.116 
            For example, on December 17th, White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said on
               Fox News that in numerous States there has been an alternate slate of electors voted
               upon that Congress will decide in January.117 On December 21st, President Trump and Vice President Pence each joined parts of a
               White House meeting in which Members of Congress from the Freedom Caucus encouraged
               the Vice President to reject Biden electors from one or more of the seven contested
               States.118 And days later, Eastman cited the existence of the fake votes in an email to Boris
               Epshteyn, a member of the Giuliani legal team, writing, [t]he fact that we have multiple
               slates of electors demonstrate[s] the uncertainty of either. That should be enough.119
            As discussed further in Chapter 5, that email contained Eastmans 2-page memo proposing
               a strategy for January 6th based on the incorrect legal theory that Vice President
               Pence could assert some authority as President of the Senate to prevent or delay the
               election of former Vice President Biden during the joint session. Eastmans memo relied
               on the fake votes, which the memo featured in the very first line: 7 states have
               transmitted dual slates of electors.120 When Eastman submitted his memo to Epshteyn, he also copied Chesebro, who had edited
               the memo and called it [r]eally awesome.121
            By that point, Chesebro and Eastman were coordinating their arguments about the fake-elector
               votes and how they should be used. On January 1, 2021, Chesebro sent an email to Eastman
               and Epshteyn that recommended that Vice President Pence derail the joint session of
               Congress. In it, he raised the idea of Vice President Pence declaring that there
               are two competing slates of electoral votes in several States, and taking the position
               that only he, or possibly Congress, could resolve any disputes concerning them.122
            Two days later, Eastman completed his second major memo advising President Trump and
               his team on strategies for January 6th, again arguing that there were dual slates
               of electors from 7 states, and calling for Vice President Pence to assert power to
               act [a]s the ultimate arbiter to take steps that could overturn the election, either
               by sending the election back to State legislatures to reassess or by rejecting Bidens
               certified electoral votes from States in which there were also fake Trump electors.123
            By early January, most of the fake elector votes had arrived in Washington, except
               those from Michigan and Wisconsin.124 Undeterred, the Trump team arranged to fly them to Washington and hand deliver them
               to Congress for the Vice President himself. Freaking trump idiots want someone to
               fly original elector papers to the senate President . . . Wisconsin Republican Party
               official Mark Jefferson wrote to Party Chairman Hitt on January 4th.125 Hitt responded, Ok I see I have a missed call from [Mike] Roman and a text from
               someone else. Did you talk to them already? This is just nuts. . . .126
            The next day, Trump Campaign Deputy Director for Election Day Operations G. Michael
               Brown sent a text message to other campaign staff suggesting that he was the person
               who delivered the fake votes to Congress.127 After sending the group a photo of his face with the Capitol in the background, Brown
               said, This has got to be the cover a book I write one day and I should probably
               buy [Mike] [R]oman a tie or something for sending me on this one. Hasnt been done
               since 1876 and it was only 3 states that did it.128 The reference to 1876 alludes to a controversy during that election about certain
               States electoral college votes.129
            President Trump and his Campaign apparently had assistance from allies on Capitol
               Hill for this effort, including Senator Ron Johnson, his chief of staff, and the chief
               of staff to Representative Mike Kelly, although Senator Johnson has said that [his]
               involvement in that attempt to deliver fake elector paperwork spanned the course
               of a couple seconds.130 On the morning of January 6th, Representative Kellys then-chief of staff texted
               an aide to the Vice President, Chris Hodgson, about hand-delivering the fake elector
               votes to the Vice Presidents team before the joint session, a message that Hodgson
               ignored: Just following up-any chance you or someone from your team can meet to take
               the Michigan and Wisconsin packets.131
            
                  Senator Ron Johnson, February 12, 2021.
                  (Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty Images)
               
            
            According to the office of Senator Ron Johnson, Representative Kellys chief of staff
               then had a phone call with Senator Johnsons chief of staff at 11:58 a.m. about how
               Kellys office could get us the electors [sic] because they had it.132 Shortly after 11:30 a.m., the Trump Campaigns lead attorney in Wisconsin had texted
               Senator Johnson expressing a [n]eed to get a document on Wisconsin electors to you
               [for] the VP immediately. Is there a staff person I can talk to immediately.133 Senator Johnson then put his chief of staff in touch with the campaign to handle
               the issue.134
            Shortly afterwards, Senator Johnsons chief of staff texted Hodgson: [Sen.] Johnson
               needs to hand something to VPOTUS please advise.135 When Hodgson asked what it was, the response he got was, Alternate slate of electors
               for MI and WI because archivist didnt receive them.136 Hodgson did not mince words: Do not give that to him [the Vice President]. Hes
               about to walk over to preside over the joint session, those were supposed to come
               in through the mail.137
            Those fake electoral votes, which the Trump team tried for weeks to manufacture and
               deliver, never made it to the Vice President. But they would have been invalid even
               if they did arrive on time. The Trump teams activities were based on the false pretense
               that these fake electoral votes had a decisive role to play at the joint session of
               Congress. And yet any such role that they could have played would have helped unlawfully
               obstruct an official proceeding that determines how our Nation carries out the peaceful
               transfer of power between Presidents.
            Indeed, as the joint session approached, Senator Mike Lee had expressed grave concerns
               about the fake elector effort in a series of text messages to one of the Trump teams
               senior legal advisors. Although Senator Lee had spent a month encouraging the idea
               of having State legislatures endorse competing electors for Trump, he grew alarmed
               as it became clear that the Trump team wanted the fake electors votes to be considered
               on January 6th even without authorization from any State government body.138
            
                  Senator Mike Lee, April 28, 2016.
                  (Photo by Leigh Vogel/Getty Images)
               
            
            On December 30th, Senator Lee texted Trump advisor Cleta Mitchell that January 6th
               was a dangerous idea, including for the republic itself.139 He explained that, I dont think we have any valid basis for objecting to the electors
               because it cannot be true that we can object to any states presidential electors
               simply because we dont think they handled their election well or suspect illegal
               activity.140 Senator Lee even questioned her about the plans dangerous long-term consequences:
               [w]ill you please explain to me how this doesnt create a slippery slope problem
               for all future presidential elections?141
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               2.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Tim Murtaugh Production), XXM-0021349 (December 13,
                  2020, and December 14, 2020, text messages between Tim Murtaugh, Justin Clark, Jason
                  Miller, and Eric Herschmann); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022),
                  p. 116; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022),  pp. 7072; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 3843.
               3.  See Chapter 4; Senate Committee on the Judiciary Majority Staff Report, Subverting Justice: How the Former President and His Allies Pressured DOJ to Overturn
                     the 2020 Election, (Oct. 7, 2021), pp.   2039, 188, and Key Document H at pp. 185191, available at  https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Interim%20Staff%20Report%20FINAL.pdf.
               4.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475, Chapman053476
                  (December 23, 2020, email titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALDec 23 memo on Jan 6
                  scenario.docx from John Eastman to Boris Epshteyn and Kenneth Chesebro, with attached
                  memo titled January 6 scenario); Documents on file with the Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923050
                  (Jan. 3, 2021, John Eastman 6-page memo); John C. Eastman, Privileged and ConfidentialJan
                  6 Scenario, (Jan. 3, 2021), available athttps://www.scribd.com/document/528776994/Privileged-and-Confidential-Jan-3-Memo-on-Jan-6-Scenario; John C. Eastman, Trying to Prevent Illegal Conduct from Deciding an Election is
                  Not Endorsing a Coup, American Greatness, (Sep. 30, 2021), available athttps://amgreatness.com/2021/09/30/trying-to-prevent-illegal-conduct-from-deciding-an-election-is-not-endorsing-a-coup/ (embedded). See also Chapter 5.
               5.  Order Re Privilege of 599 Documents Dated November 3, 2020January 20, 2021 at 23,
                  Eastman v. Thompson, No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal. June 7, 2022), ECF No. 356, available at https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.cacd.841840/gov.uscourts.cacd.841840.356.0_1.pdf.
               6.  Order re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 36, Eastman v. Thompson, 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM), available
                  at https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.cacd.841840/gov.uscourts.cacd.841840.260.0_10.pdf. 
               7.  The Trump team tried to justify its fake-elector scheme based in part on the 1960
                  Kennedy-Nixon election. At that time, following a close vote in Hawaii, Republican
                  and Democratic electors each met and cast purported electoral college votes on the
                  same day because there was ongoing litigation and a pending recount. Circumstances
                  in 2020 were different, however, in part because there were no pending recounts. Kenneth
                  Chesebro reportedly recognized this difference in an email copied to Rudolph Giuliani
                  that acknowledged certain concerns about their efforts could be valid, because,
                  as he put it, in the Hawaii 1960 incident, when the Kennedy electors voted[,] there
                  was a pending recount. Maggie Haberman and Luke Broadwater, Arizona Officials Warned
                  Fake Electors Plan Could Appear Treasonous, New York Times, (Aug. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/02/us/politics/arizona-trump-fake-electors.html.
               8.  David Thomas, Lawyer Group Says Trump Attorney Broke Ethics Rules in Fake Elector
                  Plan, Reuters, (Oct. 12, 2022), available at https://www.reuters.com/legal/legalindustry/lawyer-group-says-trump-attorney-broke-ethics-rules-fake-elector-plan-2022-10-12/; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               9.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman025125 (November
                  18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled The Real Deadline for Settling a States
                  Electoral Votes); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman025124
                  (December 7, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro with attachment 2020-11-20 Chesebro
                  memo on real deadline2.pdf); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF037
                  (November 18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled The Real Deadline for Settling
                  a States Electoral Votes). See also Alan Feuer, Maggie Haberman, and Luke Broadwater, Memos Show Roots of Trumps Focus
                  on Jan. 6 and Alternate Electors, New York Times, (Feb. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/02/us/politics/trump-jan-6-memos.html. 
               10.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman025125 (November
                  18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled The Real Deadline for Settling a States
                  Electoral Votes); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman025124
                  (December 7, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro with attachment 2020-11-20 Chesebro
                  memo on real deadline2.pdf); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF037
                  (Nov. 18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled The Real Deadline for Settling
                  a States Electoral Votes). See also Alan Feuer, Maggie Haberman, and Luke Broadwater, Memos Show Roots of Trumps Focus
                  on Jan. 6 and Alternate Electors, New York Times, (Feb. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/02/us/politics/trump-jan-6-memos.html. 
               11. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman025125, (November
                  18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled The Real Deadline for Settling a States
                  Electoral Votes) (underlining in original); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University
                  Production), Chapman025124, (December 7, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro with attachment
                  2020-11-20 Chesebro memo on real deadline2.pdf); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Joshua
                  Findlay Production), CTRL0000082463_00009, (November 18, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro
                  titled The Real Deadline for Settling a States Electoral Votes); Alan Feuer, Maggie
                  Haberman, and Luke Broadwater, Memos Show Roots of Trumps Focus on Jan. 6 and Alternate
                  Electors, New York Times, (Feb. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/02/us/politics/trump-jan-6-memos.html. 
               12.  Emphasis added. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF044, (December
                  9, 2020, memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled Statutory Requirements for December 14
                  Electoral Votes); Alan Feuer, Maggie Haberman, and Luke Broadwater, Memos Show Roots
                  of Trumps Focus on Jan. 6 and Alternate Electors, New York Times, (Feb. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/02/us/politics/trump-jan-6-memos.html. 
               13.  U.S. Const., art. II, . 1, cl. 2: (Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as
                  the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number
                  of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress:
                  but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under
                  the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.).
               14.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (James DeGraffenreid Production), DEGRAFFENREID 000778,
                  (December 11, 2020, email from Jim DeGraffenreid to Kenneth Chesebro with subject
                  URGENTTrump-Pence campaign asked me to contact you to coordinate Dec. 14 voting
                  by Nevada electors).
               15.  Maggie Haberman and Luke Broadwater, Kind of Wild/Creative: Emails Shed Light
                  on Trump Fake Electors Plan, New York Times, (July 26, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/26/us/politics/trump-fake-electors-emails.html (emphasis in original). Although this alleged email described by the New York Times was not produced to the Select Committee, it matches certain information in a privilege
                  log provided to the Select Committee by its reported sender.  This includes the same
                  reported sender (Jack Wilenchik), direct recipient (Boris Epshteyn), seven cced recipients
                  in the same order (Christina Bobb, Lee Miller, Dennis Wilenchik, Aaron Green, Josh
                  Offenhartz, Christine Ferreira, and Victoria Stevens), title (RE: [EXTERNAL]FW: petition
                  for Cert and Motion for Expedited Consideration), and date (12/8/2020), with only
                  a negligible one-minute discrepancy in the time sent (4:27 p.m. versus 4:26 p.m.).
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Jack Wilenchik Production), CTRL0000922311, line 9
                  (Sept. 7, 2022, Jack Wilenchik Production 09_07_2022 - PrivLog UPDATED). 
               16.  Nevada Revised Statutes, Title 24Elections, Chapter 298Presidential Electors
                  and Elections, Nevada State Legislature, available at https://www.leg.state.nv.us/nrs/nrs-298.html#NRS298Sec065.
               17.   Nevada Certificate of Ascertainment 2020, National Archives and Records Administration,
                  (Dec. 2, 2020, also later updated Dec. 10, 2020), available at https://www.archives.gov/files/electoral-college/2020/ascertainment-nevada.pdf.
               18.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF044 (December 9, 2020,
                  memo from Kenneth Chesebro titled Statutory Requirements for December 14 Electoral
                  Votes). Where it wouldnt be possible to comply with State law, as in Nevada, Chesebro
                  advised the so-called electors to proceed anyway, writing: "[T]hese technical aspects
                  of state law are unlikely to matter much in the end." Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (James
                  DeGraffenreid Production), DEGRAFFENREID 000778, (December 11, 2020, email from Jim
                  DeGraffenreid to Kenneth Chesebro with subject URGENTTrump-Pence campaign asked
                  me to contact you to coordinate Dec. 14 voting by Nevada electors).
               19.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (January
                  4, 2021, email from Kenneth Chesebro to John Eastman titled Fwd: Draft 2, with edits,
                  which includes in the chain a Dec. 13, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro to Rudy Giuliani
                  titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALBrief Notes on President of the Senate strategy).
               20.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (January
                  4, 2021, email from Kenneth Chesebro to John Eastman titled Fwd: Draft 2, with edits,
                  which includes in the chain a Dec. 13, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro to Rudy Giuliani
                  titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALBrief Notes on President of the Senate strategy).
               21.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (January
                  4, 2021, email from Kenneth Chesebro to John Eastman titled Fwd: Draft 2, with edits,
                  which includes in the chain a Dec. 13, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro to Rudy Giuliani
                  titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALBrief Notes on President of the Senate strategy).
               22.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (January
                  4, 2021, email from Kenneth Chesebro to John Eastman titled Fwd: Draft 2, with edits,
                  which includes in the chain a Dec. 13, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro to Rudy Giuliani
                  titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALBrief Notes on President of the Senate strategy).
                  In his email, Mr. Chesebro argues that the President of the Senate should open two
                  envelopes from the contested States including Arizona, announce[] that he cannot
                  and will not ... count any electoral votes from [the contested State] because there
                  are two slates of votes, and refuse to count them unless the election is rerun,
                  the courts engage in adequate judicial review, or the States legislature appoint[s]
                  electors. From this language, it is clear that Mr. Chesebro contemplated the fake
                  votes being used in Congress without a court or State government adopting, ratifying,
                  or otherwise selecting them as the proper electoral college votes from a contested
                  State. To be fair, Chesebro concludes this email by telling Giuliani that [m]any
                  more points would need to be analyzed in making a complete argument that the President
                  of the Senate possesses the sole power to count electoral votes, and anything to the
                  contrary in the Electoral Count Act is unconstitutional. Despite that caution, the
                  very next sentence advocates for a vigorous assertion of that power: But at minimum
                  this seems a defensible interpretation of the Twelfth Amendment, and one that ought
                  to be asserted, vigorously, by whoever has the role of President of the Senate.
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (January
                  4, 2021, email from Kenneth Chesebro to John Eastman titled Fwd: Draft 2, with edits,
                  which includes in the chain a Dec. 13, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro to Rudy Giuliani
                  titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALBrief Notes on President of the Senate strategy).
               24.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475, Chapman053476,
                  (Dec. 23, 2020 email titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALDec 23 memo on Jan 6 scenario.docx
                  from John Eastman to Boris Epshteyn and Kenneth Chesebro, with attached memo titled
                  January 6 scenario); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923050
                  (Jan. 3, 2021, John Eastman 6-page memo); John C. Eastman, Privileged and ConfidentialJan
                  6 Scenario, (Jan. 3, 2021), available athttps://www.scribd.com/document/528776994/Privileged-and-Confidential-Jan-3-Memo-on-Jan-6-Scenarioand embedded at John C. Eastman, Trying to Prevent Illegal Conduct from Deciding
                  an Election is Not Endorsing a Coup, American Greatness (Sep. 30, 2021), available
                  athttps://amgreatness.com/2021/09/30/trying-to-prevent-illegal-conduct-from-deciding-an-election-is-not-endorsing-a-coup/.
               25.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM003771.
               26.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM003771 (emphasis added).
               27.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM003769.
               28.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM010783, MM010784.
               29.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM010783, MM010784.
               30.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM013515.
               31.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM013516.
               32.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 5455.
               33.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 2728.
               34.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), p. 29.
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 8687.
               36.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel, (June 1, 2022), pp. 78. Ms. McDaniel
                  didnt recall the exact date of the call, but thought it was at least a few days
                  before December 14th and may have been sometime before the Supreme Court rejected
                  the case Texas v. Pennsylvania on December 11th.
               37.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel, (June 1, 2022), pp. 89.
               38.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel, (June 1, 2022), pp. 913. McDaniel
                  asserted to the Select Committee that even after December 14th she was under the impression
                  that the seven slates of fake electors were strictly contingent in nature pending
                  authorization by a court of law, and that she relayed this to several concerned Republican
                  officials in the contested States. See id., at 18. However, there is also no indication that she took action to condemn or block
                  the misuse of these contingent elector slates by January 6th.
               39.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Tim Murtaugh Production), XXM-0021349, (December 13,
                  2020, text message from Jason Miller to Justin Clark and Eric Herschmann).  For instance,
                  on December 11th, Chesebro wrote to a lawyer working on litigation efforts in Arizona,
                  asking him to file a petition that would keep the litigation alive through the 14th:
                  [C]an you get the cert. petition on file by Monday?  Reason is that Kelli Ward &amp;
                  Kelly Townsend just spoke to the Mayor about the campaigns request that all electors
                  vote Monday in all contested states.  Ward and Townsend are concerned it could appear
                  treasonous for the AZ electors to vote on Monday if there is no pending court proceeding that
                  might, eventually, lead to the electors being ratified as the legitimate ones.  Which
                  is a valid point....  Maggie Haberman and Luke Broadwater, Arizona Officials
                  Warned Fake Electors Plan Could Appear Treasonous, The New York Times, (Aug. 2, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/02/us/politics/arizona-trump-fake-electors.html (emphasis in original).
               40.  Order re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 15, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM (C.D. Cal. Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 372.
               41.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Tim Murtaugh Production), XXM-0019417 (December 14,
                  2020, emails between Jason Miller and Boris Epshteyn).
               42.  Order Dismissing Bill of Complaint and Denying Certiorari,Texas v. Pennsylvania,
                  592 U.S. ___, (Dec. 11, 2020) (No. 155, Orig.), available at https://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/courtorders/121120zr_p860.pdf.
               43.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 8788.
               44.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 116.
               45.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), p. 69; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 74.
               46.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 118.
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 114.
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 114, 116.
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 116, 118.  However, Justin
                  Clarks message in an email dated December 24th seems to potentially contradict his
                  suggestions that the campaign legal team fully backed out: In terms of political
                  judgements on January 6 I know ... that plans are being discussed and executed:
                  alternate slates have been submitted, votes are being whipped, all of the arguments
                  are in place and a not insignificant ad b[u]y was made highlighting the issues in
                  the election.Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (William Stepien Production), WS 00036.
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 70.
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 3940.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 6970,
                  73. 
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Patrick Philbin, (Apr. 13, 2022).
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 7576.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), p. 6465. (Hutchinson later
                  clarified that she recalled hearing that from Pat Cipollone and, potentially, also
                  Pat Philbin.)
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 6465.
               57.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF052.
               58.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 8788.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), pp. 8788.
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), p. 44.
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May 25, 2022), p. 30.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 125.
               63.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (James DeGraffenreid Production), CTRL0000044010_00031
                  (Dec. 10, 2020 email from Kenneth Chesebro to James DeGraffenreid and others).
               64.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF051, JF054.
               65.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (David Shafer Production), 108751.0001_000004, 108751.0001_000019,
                  108751.0001_000020, 108751.0001_000021, 108751.0001_000024.
               66.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF049.
               67.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (James DeGraffenreid Production), DEGRAFFENREID 000786;
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Michael McDonald Production), MCDONALD 000789.
               68.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF061.
               69.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Lawrence Tabas Production), CTRL0000061077.
               70.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000011.
               71.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000011.
               72.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000011; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (David Shafer Production), 108751.0001 000004; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Lawrence Tabas Production), CTRL0000061077; Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (James DeGraffenreid
                  Production), DEGRAFFENREID 000786; Documents on file with the Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Kenneth Chesebro
                  Production), KC_Elector_Correspondence_000211, KC_Elector_Correspondence_000215.
               73.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Joshua Findlay Production), JF052.
               74.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083897, CTRL0000083898.
                  
               75.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083897.  
               76.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083897. Members
                  of this team appear to have included Trump Victory Committee or Trump Campaign EDO
                  State or regional directors for relevant States, including Arizona and New Mexico
                  (Thomas Lane), Georgia (Robert Sinners), Michigan (Shawn Flynn), Nevada (Jesse Law
                  and Valerie McConahay), Pennsylvania (James Fitzpatrick), and Wisconsin (Ryan Terrill,
                  who had originally worked on North Carolina issues but later shifted to Wisconsin),
                  as well as Mr. Romans deputy (G. Michael Brown).  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Laura Cox Production), Laura Cox 000339; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Rudy Giuliani Production), RGGLOBAL_DOM_00001373; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (Tim Murtaugh Production) XXM-0010338, XXM-0008776, XXM-0011867; Richard Ruelas,
                  Trump Campaign Official Subpoenaed by FBI Appears to Be at Meeting of Fake Arizona
                  Electors, Arizona Republic, (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/arizona/2022/06/23/fbi-subpoenas-thomas-lane-trump-campaign-arizona/7708133001/; Jonathan Oosting, Trump Fake Elector Probe into 2020 Race Expands with Michigan
                  Subpoenas, Bridge Michigan, (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/trump-fake-elector-probe-2020-race-expands-michigan-subpoenas; Zach Montellaro and Holly Otterbein, Trump Calls for Poll Watchers. Election Officials
                  Call for Calm, Politico, (Sept. 30, 2020), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2020/09/30/trump-poll-watchers-election-423996; Luke Broadwater, Jan. 6 Inquiry Subpoenas 6 Tied to False Pro-Trump Elector Effort,
                  New York Times, (Feb. 15, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/15/us/politics/jan-6-subpoenas-trump.html.
               77.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083898.
               78.  David Shafer (@DavidShafer), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 12:51 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/DavidShafer/status/1338542161932021762; David Shafer (@DavidShafer), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 1:07 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/DavidShafer/status/1338546066346676224; Republican Electors Cast Procedural Vote, Seek to Preserve Trump Campaign Legal
                  Challenge, Pennsylvania Republican Party website, (Dec. 14, 2020), available at https://pagop.org/2020/12/14/republican-electors-cast-procedural-vote/; Statement on Republican Electors Meeting, Republican Party of Wisconsin, (Dec.
                  14, 2020), available at https://wisgop.org/republican-electors-2020/; Republican Party of Arizona (@AZGOP), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 5:13 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/AZGOP/status/1338608056985239554. 
               79.  Marshall Cohen, Zachary Cohen, and Dan Merica, Trump Campaign Officials, Led by
                  Rudy Giuliani, Oversaw Fake Electors Plot in 7 States, CNN, (Jan. 20, 2022), available
                  at https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/20/politics/trump-campaign-officials-rudy-giuliani-fake-electors/index.html.
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May
                  25, 2022), p. 58.
               81.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Tim Murtaugh Production), XXM-0016071 (December
                  10, 2020, email from Joshua Findlay to Nick Trainer and Matt Morgan re: Presidential
                  Elector Issues).
               82.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Tim Murtaugh Production), XXM-0016071 (December
                  10, 2020, email from Joshua Findlay to Nick Trainer and Matt Morgan re: Presidential
                  Elector Issues); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Joshua Findlay, (May
                  25, 2022), pp. 5559; Michael C. Bender, Republicans Hire Nine Regional Directors
                  for Trump 2020 Election, Wall Street Journal, (May 8, 2019), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-campaign-hires-nine-regional-directors-for-2020-election-11557355628.
               83.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Lawrence Tabas Production), CTRL0000061085 (December
                  13, 2020, email chain between Thomas King III and James Fitzpatrick re: Pa. Electors).
               84.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Lawrence Tabas, (Apr.
                  11, 2022).  
               85.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000076 (December
                  4, 2020, Text messages between Andrew Hitt and Mark Jefferson); Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Andrew Hitt, (Feb. 28, 2022),
                  p. 8.
               86.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000083 (December
                  12, 2020, Text messages between Andrew Hitt and Mark Jefferson).
               87.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037949
                  (December 14, 2020, memorandum from purported electors in Wisconsin).
               88.  Kira Lerner, UPDATED Trumps Fake Electors: Heres the Full List, News from the States, (June 29, 2022), available at https://www.newsfromthestates.com/article/updated-trumps-fake-electors-heres-full-list; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037568,
                  CTRL0000037944, CTRL0000037945, CTRL0000037946, CTRL0000037947, CTRL0000037948, CTRL0000037949
                  (December 14, 2020, memoranda from slates of purported electors in Arizona, Georgia,
                  Michigan, New Mexico, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin).
               89.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Laura Cox, (May 3, 2022), pp.
                  7778.
               90.  Beth Reinhard, Amy Gardner, Josh Dawsey, Emma Brown, and Rosalind S. Helderman, As
                  Giuliani Coordinated Plan for Trump Electoral Votes in States Biden Won, Some Electors
                  Balked, Washington Post, (Jan. 20, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/electors-giuliani-trump-electoral-college/2022/01/20/687e3698-7587-11ec-8b0a-bcfab800c430_story.html.
               91.  Beth Reinhard, Amy Gardner, Josh Dawsey, Emma Brown, and Rosalind S. Helderman, As
                  Giuliani Coordinated Plan for Trump Electoral Votes in States Biden Won, Some Electors
                  Balked, Washington Post, (Jan. 20, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/electors-giuliani-trump-electoral-college/2022/01/20/687e3698-7587-11ec-8b0a-bcfab800c430_story.html.
               92.  Kira Lerner, UPDATED Trumps fake electors: Heres the full list, News from the States, (June 29, 2022), available at https://www.newsfromthestates.com/article/updated-trumps-fake-electors-heres-full-list.
               93.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Andrew Hitt, (Feb. 28, 2022),
                  pp. 5051.
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert Sinners, (June
                  15, 2022), pp. 18-19.
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert Sinners, (June
                  15, 2022), pp. 37-38.
               96.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037568,
                  CTRL0000037944, CTRL0000037945 CTRL0000037946, CTRL0000037947, CTRL0000037948, CTRL0000037949
                  (December 14, 2020, memoranda from slates of purported electors in Arizona, Georgia,
                  Michigan, Nevada, and Wisconsin).
               97.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037946
                  (December 14, 2020, memorandum from purported electors in New Mexico).
               98.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037948
                  (December 14, 2020, memorandum from purported electors in Pennsylvania).
               99.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083893 (December
                  14, 2020, email chain from Robert Sinners to Mike Roman and others re: Whip Update).
               100.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (William Stepien Production), WS 00095, WS 00096
                  (December 14, 2020, email from Joshua Findlay to Matt Morgan, Justin Clark, and ccing
                  Bill Stepien re: Georgia Update).
               101.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000009527_0001,
                  (December 14, 2020, forwarded email from Ronna McDaniel to Molly Michael with the
                  subject line: FWD: Electors RecapFinal).
               102.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000009527_0001,
                  (December 14, 2020, forwarded email from Ronna McDaniel to Molly Michael with the
                  subject line: FWD: Electors RecapFinal).
               103.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Shawn Still Production), CTRL0000042623_00018
                  (December 13, 2020, email from Shawn Still to Dana Pagan subject: Fwd: Information
                  on Duties of Presidential Electors  Monday, December 14th).
               104.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Shawn Still Production), CTRL0000042623_00018
                  (December 13, 2020, email from Shawn Still to Dana Pagan subject: Fwd: Information
                  on Duties of Presidential Electors  Monday, December 14th).
               105.  Greg Bluestein (@bluestein), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 11:32 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/bluestein/status/1338522299360800771; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Shawn Still, (Feb. 25, 2022),
                  pp. 4148; Michael Isikoff and Daniel Klaidman, Exclusive: Fulton County DA Sends
                  Target Letters to Trump Allies in Georgia Investigation, Yahoo! News, (July 15, 2022), available at https://news.yahoo.com/exclusive-fulton-county-da-sends-target-letters-to-trump-allies-in-georgia-investigation-152517469.html.  
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Laura Cox, (May 3, 2022), pp.
                  5354.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Laura Cox, (May 3, 2022), pp.
                  5354.
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Mayra Rodriguez, (Feb. 22, 2022),
                  pp. 1418.
               109.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000417_0001,
                  VP-R0000418_0001 (January 3, 2021, email from Elizabeth MacDonough, subject RE: COV
                  tracker with attachment); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00094 (Attachment
                  to email from Elizabeth MacDonough, subject RE: COV tracker).
               110.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000417_0001,
                  VP-R0000418_0001 (January 3, 2021, email from Elizabeth MacDonough, subject RE: COV
                  tracker with attachment); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00094 (Attachment
                  to email from Elizabeth MacDonough, subject RE: COV tracker).
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022),
                  pp. 14445, 20607.
               112.  In Wisconsin they were able to enter with apparent help from the chief of staff for
                  then majority leader of the Wisconsin State Senate, Scott Fitzgerald, who now represents
                  Wisconsin in the U.S. House of Representatives.  In Georgia, a freelance reporter
                  who has testified to the Fulton County grand jury claims to have found that the room
                  in which the fake electors met was reserved by the office of Georgia House Speaker
                  David Ralston, which is consistent with what Georgia GOP Chairman David Shafer told
                  the Select Committee. See Open Records Regarding Wisconsins Fake Electors Suggest Congressman Scott Fitzgerald
                  Played Significant Role in Trying to Overturn a Free and Fair Election, Office of
                  Wisconsin State Senator Chris Larson, (Jan. 25, 2022), available at https://legis.wisconsin.gov/senate/07/Larson/media/2056/1-25-22-fitzgerald-electors-pr.pdf; Letter from Cyrus Anderson, Deputy Sergeant at Arms, Wisconsin State Senate to State
                  Sen. Chris Larson, attaching documents, Jan. 24, 2022, available at https://legis.wisconsin.gov/senate/07/Larson/media/2052/12-14-20-open-records-request-results-short.pdf; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of David Shafer, (Feb. 25, 2022),
                  pp. 9394, 106; Michael Isikoff and Daniel Kladman, Exclusive: Fulton County DA Sends
                  Target Letters to Trump Allies in Georgia Investigation, Yahoo! News, (July 15, 2022), available at https://news.yahoo.com/exclusive-fulton-county-da-sends-target-letters-to-trump-allies-in-georgia-investigation-152517469.html; George Chidi, Bearing Witness, The Atlanta Objective with George Chidi, (June
                  29, 2022), available at https://theatlantaobjective.substack.com/p/bearing-witness; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Shawn Still Production), 108755.0001_000009
                  (December 13, 2020, email from Shawn Still to Dana Pagan re: Fwd: Information of
                  Duties of Presidential Electors  Monday Dec. 14th).
               113.  Daniel Villareal, Michigan Republicans Tried to Submit Fake Electoral Votes to Capitol,
                  Newsweek, (Dec. 15, 2020), available at https://www.newsweek.com/michigan-republicans-tried-submit-fake-electoral-votes-capitol-1555028.
               114.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037945,
                  p. 2 (December 14, 2020, memorandum of purported Michigan electors for Donald J. Trump).
                  
               115.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Mayra Rodriguez, (Feb. 22, 2022),
                  pp. 18, 21; Laina G. Stebbins, Feds Serve Subpoenas to Pro-Trump Fake Electors in
                  Michigan, Michigan Advance (June 23, 2022), available at https://michiganadvance.com/blog/feds-serve-subpoenas-to-pro-trump-fake-electors-in-michigan/. 
               116.  Brett Samuels, Stephen Miller: Alternate Electors Will Keep Trump Election Challenge
                  Alive, The Hill, (Dec. 14, 2020), available at https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/530092-stephen-miller-alternate-electors-will-keep-trump-challenge-alive-post/; Steve Bannons War Room Radio, STEVE BANNONS WAR ROOM RADIO SPECIAL EPISODE582,
                  BitChute, (aired on Dec. 14, 2020, reposted on BitChute Aug. 22, 2021), at 10:3013:00, available
                  at https://www.bitchute.com/video/v889V3Thxgcj/. 
               117.  Mike Wereschagin, Pa. Republicans Hedged Language May Have Saved Them from Prosecution
                  over Electoral Vote Scheme, Lancaster Online, (Jan. 17, 2022), available at https://lancasteronline.com/news/politics/pa-republicans-hedged-language-may-have-saved-them-from-prosecution-over-electoral-vote-scheme/article_849d4f7e-7589-11ec-8881-6383a823557d.html.  
               118.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 143-48.
               119.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475
                  (December 23, 2020, John Eastman email to Boris Epshteyn and Ken Chesebro).
               120.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053476
                  (Word Document, PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL January 6 Scenario, attached in Dec.
                  23, 2020, John Eastman email to Boris Epshteyn and Ken Chesebro).
               121.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475
                  (December 23, 2020, John Eastman email to Boris Epshteyn and Ken Chesebro).
               122.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman061863
                  (January 1, 2021, Kenneth Chesebro email to John Eastman and Boris Epshteyn at 10:26
                  p.m.).
               123.  Both of Dr. Eastmans memos described here are discussed at length in the chapter
                  addressing President Trumps pressure on the Vice President. See Chapter 5. See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475,
                  Chapman053476, (Dec. 23, 2020 email titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIALDec 23 memo
                  on Jan 6 scenario.docx from John Eastman to Boris Epshteyn and Kenneth Chesebro,
                  with attached memo titled January 6 scenario); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923050 (Jan. 3, 2021,
                  John Eastman 6-page memo); John C. Eastman, Privileged and ConfidentialJan 6 Scenario,
                  (Jan. 3, 2021), available athttps://www.scribd.com/document/528776994/Privileged-and-Confidential-Jan-3-Memo-on-Jan-6-Scenarioand embedded at John C. Eastman, Trying to Prevent Illegal Conduct from Deciding
                  an Election is Not Endorsing a Coup, American Greatness (Sep. 30, 2021), available
                  athttps://amgreatness.com/2021/09/30/trying-to-prevent-illegal-conduct-from-deciding-an-election-is-not-endorsing-a-coup/.
               124.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000417_0001, VP-R0000418_0001
                  (January 3, 2021 email and attachment from Senate Parliamentarian to Office of the
                  Vice President); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production) 00094 (additional
                  copy of same attachment sent from Senate Parliamentarian to Office of the Vice President).
               125.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000089 (January 4, 2021,
                  Andrew Hitt text message to Mark Jefferson at 9:02 p.m.).
               126.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000089 (January 4, 2021,
                  Andrew Hitt text message to Mark Jefferson at 9:02 p.m.).
               127.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001576, McCallum_01_001577
                  (Michael Brown text message to Angela McCallum at undetermined time); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Angela McCallum (Dec. 8, 2021), p. 122.
               128.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum Production), McCallum_01_001576, McCallum_01_001577
                  (Michael Brown text message to Angela McCallum at undetermined time); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Angela McCallum (Dec. 8, 2021), p. 122.
               129.  The Select Committee does not know where Brown delivered the fake votes. The Select
                  Committee attempted to contact Brown multiple ways, including by subpoena, but servers
                  could not locate him and he never responded to outreach. The Select Committee served
                  Mike Roman with a subpoena, but he asserted his Fifth Amendment rights and did not
                  answer any substantive questions about the fake-elector scheme. What the Select Committee
                  has determined, however, is that Brown likely delivered the fake electoral college
                  votes to at least one of President Trumps allies in Congress. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Michael Roman, (Aug. 10, 2022),
                  p. 40.
               130.  Jason Lemon, Johnson Says Involvement With 1/6 Fake Electors Plan Only Lasted Seconds,
                  Newsweek, (Aug. 21, 2022), available at https://www.newsweek.com/johnson-says-involvement-1-6-fake-electors-plan-only-lasted-seconds-1735486; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00007 (January
                  6, 2021, text message at 8:41 a.m. ET from Matt Stroia to Chris Hodgson); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_000035 (Jan. 6, 2021, text
                  message around 12:37 p.m. ET from Sean Riley to Chris Hodgson) (Johnson needs to
                  hand something to VPOTUS please advise ... Alternate slate of electors for MI and
                  WI because archivist didnt receive them...).  
               131.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00007 (January
                  6, 2021, Matt Stroia text message to Chris Hodgson at 8:41 a.m.).
               132.  Lawrence Andrea, Pennsylvania Congressman Concludes Internal Investigation with
                  Few Answers After Ron Johnsons Claims About False Electors, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, (July 14, 2022), available at https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/2022/07/14/few-answers-mike-kellys-probe-into-false-electors-ron-johnson-pennsylvania-wisconsin/10059776002/. 
               133.  The Vicki McKenna ShowKeep and Bear Arms, iHeart Radio, June 23, 2022, at 9:3015:00,
                  available at https://www.iheart.com/podcast/139-vicki-mckenna-27246267/episode/the-vicki-mckenna-show-keep-98666092/?position=570&amp;embed=true; John Solomon, Jan. 6 Panels Ron Johnson Narrative Exposes Ills of One-Sided Hearing,
                  Just The News, (June 23, 2022), available at https://justthenews.com/government/jan-6-panels-ron-johnson-narrative-exposes-ills-one-sided-hearing (linking to image of text message available at https://justthenews.com/sites/default/files/2022-06/TroupisJohnson1.pdf).
               134.  The Vicki McKenna ShowKeep and Bear Arms, iHeart Radio, June 23, 2022, at 9:3015:00,
                  available at https://www.iheart.com/podcast/139-vicki-mckenna-27246267/episode/the-vicki-mckenna-show-keep-98666092/?position=570&amp;embed=true; John Solomon, Jan. 6 Panels Ron Johnson Narrative Exposes Ills of One-Sided Hearing,
                  Just The News, (June 23, 2022), available at https://justthenews.com/government/jan-6-panels-ron-johnson-narrative-exposes-ills-one-sided-hearing (linking to image of text message available at https://justthenews.com/sites/default/files/2022-06/JohnsonTroupis2Redacted.pdf).
               135.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00035 (January
                  6,2021, Sean Riley text message to Chris Hodgson at 12:37 p.m. ET).
               136.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00035 (January
                  6, 2021, Sean Riley text message to Chris Hodgson at 12:37 p.m. ET).
               137.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00035 (January
                  6, 2021, Sean Riley text message to Chris Hodgson at 12:37 p.m. ET).
               138.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM013494, MM014589, MM014592,
                  MM014595, MM014598, MM014722 (Mark Meadows text messages with Sen. Mike Lee on December
                  8, 2020, January 3, 2021, and January 4, 2021); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Cleta
                  Mitchell Production), CM00015452, CM00015477 (Cleta Mitchell text messages with Sen.
                  Mike Lee on December 9, 2020 and December 30, 2020).
               139.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cleta Mitchell Production), CM00015477.
               140.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cleta Mitchell Production), CM00015477.
               141.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cleta Mitchell Production), CM00015477.
