            8
            ANALYSIS OF THE ATTACK
            Late in the evening on January 6, 2021, Henry Enrique Tarrio, the head of the Proud Boys, posted a video on his Parler account. The brief footage showed a masked man, wearing a black cape, standing in
               front of the U.S. Capitol Building. Tarrio titled the 18-second video, set to ominous music, Premonition. He offered no further explanation. The clear implication of the brief footage, recorded sometime prior to January 6th, was that Tarrio had foreknowledge of the events that transpired earlier that same day.1 
            Indeed, Tarrio cheered on his fellow Proud Boys as they attacked the U.S. Capitol. He had been arrested and ordered to leave Washington, DC two days earlier. Although
               Tarrio was not physically present, he continued to monitor and communicate with his men via encrypted chats and social media. At 2:36 p.m. on January 6th, Tarrio wrote on Parler that he was enjoying the show, adding: Do what must be done and #WeThePeople.2 Two minutes later, Tarrio wrote: Dont fucking leave. Several minutes after that, Tarrio messaged his Proud Boys: Make no mistake and We did this3
            Law enforcement officials subsequently uncovered significant evidence showing that
               Tarrio and his lieutenants planned to storm the U.S. Capitol. In June 2022, Tarrio and four other Proud Boys were charged with seditious conspiracy and other crimes related to their alleged responsibility for the assault.4 The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has alleged that they conspired to prevent, hinder and delay the certification of the Electoral
               College vote, and to oppose by force the authority of the government of the United
               States.5 On January 6, 2021, the Proud Boys directed, mobilized and led members of the crowd
               onto the Capitol grounds and into the Capitol, leading to dismantling of metal barricades, destruction of property, breaching of the Capitol building, and
               assaults on law enforcement.6
            The Select Committees analysis corroborates the DOJs findings and allegations. The Select Committee reviewed extensive footage of the attack, including that recorded
               by the U.S. Capitol Polices (USCP) surveillance cameras, the Metropolitan Police
               Departments (MPD) body-worn cameras, publicly available videos, as well as on-the-ground
               film produced by an embedded documentarian. The Select Committee interviewed rioters,
               law enforcement officers, and witnesses that were present on January 6th, while also
               consulting thousands of court filings. Using these sources of information, the Select
               Committee developed a timeline of events to understand how the unprecedented attack
               on the U.S. Capitol unfolded. 
            As explained below, the Proud Boys marched from the Washington Monument to the U.S.
               Capitol on the morning of January 6th. While tens of thousands of President Trumps
               supporters gathered at a rally at the Ellipse near the White House, the Proud Boys
               prepared to attack. Shortly before the joint session of Congress was set to begin
               at 1:00 p.m., the Proud Boys instigated an assault on outmanned law enforcement at
               the Peace Circle, a key location. They quickly overran security barriers and made
               their way onto the U.S. Capitols restricted grounds. Throughout the next several
               hours, members of the Proud Boys led the attack at key breach points, preventing law
               enforcement from gaining crowd control and inciting others to press forward.
            President Trump finished his speech at the Ellipse at approximately 1:10 p.m. Toward
               the end of his remarks, the President directed his supporters to march down Pennsylvania
               Avenue to the Capitol. Their natural path took them through the Peace Circle, which
               had already been cleared out by the Proud Boys and their associates. Thousands of
               rioters and protestors streamed onto the Capitols restricted grounds in short order.
               
            The Proud Boys were not solely responsible for attacking the U.S. Capitol. As explained
               in Chapter 6, other far-right extremists and conspiracy theorists prepared for violence
               after President Trump summoned them to Washington for a wild protest on January
               6th. And they joined in the assault as well. Three Percenters, QAnon adherents, and
               other radicals were on the frontlines, pressing the charge. The Oath Keepers attacked
               the Capitol, forming two military-style stacks to push their way into the building.
               The white nationalist Groypers were present as their leader gave an inflammatory speech
               from the same Peace Circle where the attack was launched. Like members of the Proud
               Boys, Oath Keepers, and Three Percenters, some of the Groypers have been charged for
               their actions on January 6th.
            Unaffiliated Americans enraged by President Trumps lies rioted as well. The January
               6th, attack has often been described as a riotand that is partly true. Some of those
               who trespassed on the Capitols grounds or entered the building did not plan to do
               so beforehand. But it is also true that extremists, conspiracy theorists and others
               were prepared to fight. That is an insurrection. They answered President Trumps call
               to action. Some, like the Proud Boys, deliberately harnessed the mobs anger to overrun
               the Capitol. 
            8.1 The Mob Assembles in Washington
            
                  Trump supporters from around the country gather at the Washington Monument on the
                     morning of January 6, 2021.
                  Photo by Brent Stirton/Getty Images
               
            
            During the early morning hours of January 6th, tens of thousands of Americans from
               around the country began to gather at the Ellipse and the Washington Monument. They
               had come to hear President Trump speak and, more importantly, for his wild protest.
               
            Nick Quested, a documentary filmmaker, captured the mood that morning. Jacob Chansley (a.k.a. the QAnon Shaman) proclaimed this is our 1776, vowing Joe Biden is never getting in.7 An unnamed woman from Georgia, who said she hosted a podcast dedicated to a new so-called Patriot Party, also proclaimed January 6th to be the new 1776. She added an ominous warning. Im not allowed to say whats going to happen today because everyones just going
               to have to watch. Somethings gonna happen, one way or the other.8
            The Secret Service set up magnetometers to screen for weapons and other contraband,
               but many rally-goers chose to avoid the screening altogether. 
            At 6:29 a.m., Stewart Rhodes, the leader of the Oath Keepers, reminded his groups members that
               DC prohibited blades over 3 inches and encouraged them to [k]eep [the knives] low profile.9 Others were thinking along the same lines. At 7:25 a.m., the National Park Service reported that a significant number of attendees ditched their bags in trees, rather than have them inspected.10 Cassidy Hutchinson told the Select Committee she heard that thousands of people refused to walk through magnetometers to enter the Ellipse because they did
               not want to be screened for weapons.11 According to Hutchinson, the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations whose responsibilities included security-related issues, Tony Ornato, told the President that the onlookers dont want to come in right now. Theythey
               have weapons that they dont want confiscated by the Secret Service.12 When he arrived at the Ellipse that morning, President Trump angrily said: I dont [fucking] care that they have weapons. Theyre not here to hurt me. They can march to the Capitol from here.13
            Approximately 28,000 rally-goers did pass through the magnetometers. The Secret Service confiscated a significant number of prohibited items from these people, including: 269 knives or blades, 242 cannisters of pepper spray, 18 brass knuckles, 18 tasers, 6 pieces of body armor,
               3 gas masks, 30 batons or blunt instruments, and 17 miscellaneous items like scissors,
               needles, or screwdrivers.14
            At 8:07 a.m., Secret Service countersurveillance agents reported that members of
               the crowd are wearing ballistic helmets, body armor and carrying radio equipment and
               military grade backpacks.15 By 9:45 a.m., the Secret Service noted people openly carrying pepper spray as they
               strolled the streets.16
            President Trumps mob was itching for a fight. National Park Service officers arrested a man who had entered the restricted area
               around the Washington Monument. Immediately, about 100 people started forming a circle around the officer, threaten[ing] law enforcement, as the officer later recounted.17 The officer retreated into the Washington Monument with the man in custody.18 The crowd responded angrily, punching the Monuments glass windows and continuing to threaten officers.19 Law enforcement around the Washington Monument felt so unsafe that they locked themselves in a security box by the mall.20 Rioters nevertheless scaled the sides of the security box and climbed on top of the structure.21 It was a harbinger of things to come.
            MPD monitored and responded to a stream of threats that morning. Three men in fatigues from Broward County, Florida brandished AR-15s in front of MPD officers on 14th Street and Independence Avenue.22 MPD advised over the radio that one individual was possibly armed with a Glock
               at Fourteenth Street and Constitution Avenue, and another was possibly armed with a rifle at Fifteenth Street and Constitution Avenue around 11:23 a.m.23 The National Park Service detained an individual with a rifle between 12:00 and 1:00 p.m.24
            Far-right extremists brought guns into Washington or the surrounding area. Christopher Kuehne, a member of the Proud Boys, met up with friends on January 5th to discuss their plans for the following day. One person in attendance said he did not travel to Washington just to march around and asked, do we have patriots here willing to take it by force?25 Kuehne told them he had guns, and he was ready to go.26 During the attack, Kuehne helped prop open Capitol blast doors as besieged law enforcement
               retreated inside.27 Guy Reffitt, a Three Percenter from Texas, attended the rally at the Ellipse, and then carried a loaded firearm onto Capitol grounds.28 Jerod Thomas Bargar lost his gunthat hed carried from the Ellipse in a We the People holster29while scuffling with police on the west side of the Capitol  around 2:30 p.m.30 Bargar wanted to be armed, he said, when he went into the belly of the beast.31 
            Mark Andre Mazza drove from Indiana, bringing a Taurus revolver, a .45-caliber weapon that he loaded with both shotgun and hollow-point rounds.32 After assaulting a police officer, he lost the weapon,33 dropping it or losing it on the steps of the lower West Plaza leading to the Capitols West Front
               Terrace.34 The Select Committee reviewed Mazzas social media accounts before they were taken down, finding that he shared multiple conspiracy theories, including QAnon material.35 Mazza later indicated that he intended to target House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, telling authorities that youd be here for another reason if he had found
               the Speaker inside the Capitol.36
            Lonnie Leroy Coffman from Falkville, Alabama, parked by the Capitol building before
               walking nearly 2 miles to the Ellipse to hear the President speak.37 In his car, he had stocked a handgun, a rifle, a shotgun, hundreds of rounds of ammunition,
               large-capacity ammunition-feeding devices, machetes, camouflage smoke devices, a bow
               and arrow, and 11 Mason jars filled with gasoline and styrofoam, as well as rags and a lighter (tools needed to make Molotov cocktails).38 Police found two more handguns on Coffman when he was arrested later that day.39
            Many in attendance were aware of Washingtons prohibition on carrying a concealed weapon and made plans accordingly. The Oath Keepers left their guns stowed away in their cars or across State lines for easy access should they be needed.40 The group staged a quick reaction force across the river in Virginia, amassing an arsenal to come to DC by land or by
               sea, as Florida State-chapter leadand defendant convicted of seditious conspiracyKelly Meggs said.41 Oath Keeper Jason Dolan testified at the seditious conspiracy trial that the quick
               reaction force [was] ready to go get our firearms in order to stop the election from being certified
               within Congress.42 Dolan further testified that the Oath Keepers came to Washington, DC to stop the certification of the election. . . . [b]y any means necessary. Thats why we brought our firearms.43
            Garret Millera January 6th defendant who traveled from Richardson, Texasposted on Facebook that he was bringing guns with him but might just keep 1 hidden
               one and store the rest in Virginia after learning about the DC law.44 He also threatened to assassinate Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and predicted a civil war could start.45
            Many members of the crowd decided against bringing firearms into the nations capital, and armed themselves in other ways. Alex Kirk Harkrider from Carthage, Texas, and his co-defendant, Ryan Nichols, left guns in a parked car just outside the district before attending the rally.46 Harkrider still brought a tomahawk axe.47 During the march to the Capitol, he yelled [c]ut their fucking heads off!48 One rioter told the Select Committee he saw another carrying a pitchfork.49 
            Members of the mob carried flags and turned the flagpoles into weapons. Michael Foy, from Wixom, Michigan, carried a hockey stick to the Ellipsehe draped a Trump flag over it.50 Just hours later, Foy used that hockey stick to repeatedly beat police officers at
               the inaugural tunnel.51 Former New York City police officer Thomas Webster carried a Marine flag, which he
               later used to attack an officer holding the rioters back at the lower West Plaza.52 Another individual, Danny Hamilton, carried a flag with a sharpened tip, which he
                  said was for a certain person, to which Trevor Hallgren (who had traveled with Hamilton to Washington, DC) responded: it has begun. Later, Hallgren commented that [t]heres no escape Pelosi, Schumer, Nadler. Were coming for you. . . . Even you AOC. Were coming to take you out. To pull you out by your hairs. On January 5th, Hallgren took a tour of the Capitol with Representative Barry Loudermilk, during which he took pictures of hallways and staircases.53
            The mob President Trump summoned to Washington, DC, on January 6th, was prepared to
               fight. 
            8.2 March of the Proud Boys
            While tens of thousands of President Trumps supporters attended the rally at the Ellipse, the Proud Boys had other plans. On the morning of January 6th, they gathered at the Washington Monument. At 10:30 a.m., the Proud Boys started their march down the National Mall towards the U.S. Capitol. In total, there were approximately 200300 Proud Boys, as well as their associates, in the group.54
            Enrique Tarrio, the chairman of the Proud Boys, was not in attendance. As explained
               in Chapter 6, Tarrio had been arrested two days earlier and ordered to leave Washington.
               However, Tarrio continued to monitor events remotely from Baltimore, communicating
               with his men throughout the day. With Tarrio offsite, the Proud Boys were led by three
               other senior members of the group: Ethan Nordean, Joseph Biggs, and Zachary Rehl.
               
            Ethan Nordean (a.k.a. Rufio Panman) was a member of the Proud Boys Elders chapter and president of his local chapter in Seattle, Washington.55 Nordean was regarded as the leader for January 6th after Tarrio was arrested.56 In the days leading up to January 6th, Nordean made ominous comments on social media. In conversations with his fellow Proud Boys, he argued that the Presidential election was tainted by fraud and violence was a necessary remedy. For example, on January 4th, Nordean posted a video on social media with the title: Let them remember the day they decided to make war with us.57 In another social media post on January 5th, Nordean warned we are coming for them.58 He added a telling line: Youve chosen your side, black and yellow teamed with red,
               white and blue against everyone else. 59 The black and yellow is a reference to the Proud Boys. And when Nordean wrote the red, white and blue, he likely meant the Trump supporters who would be in attendance for January 6th. 
            Joseph Biggs (a.k.a. Sergeant Biggs) was a senior Proud Boys member and served as an event organizer for the group.60 Biggs previously worked with Alex Jones and InfoWars.61 In late December 2020, Biggs posted a message on Parler in which he explained that the Proud Boys will not be attending DC in colors.62 That is, unlike at previous events, the Proud Boys would not wear their branded, black and yellow clothing, but instead seek to be inconspicuous. Biggs continued: 
            We will be blending in as one of you. You wont see us. Youll even think we are you
               . . .We are going to smell like you, move like you, and look like you. The only thing
               well do thats us is think like us! Jan 6th is gonna be epic.63 
            Tarrio posted a similar message, saying the Proud Boys would go incognito on January 6th. 64  Consistent with this decision, Biggs was dressed in a plaid shirt, glasses, and dark hat as he led the march from the Washington Monument.65 Other Proud Boys dressed in a similar fashion. 
            Zachary Rehl (a.k.a. Captain Trump) was president of the local Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Proud Boys chapter.66 Like his comrades, Rehl believed President Trumps Big Lie about the 2020 Presidential election.67 He raised more than $5,500 in funds for January 6th. Like Nordean, Biggs and others, Rehl was dressed incognito as he helped lead the group from the Washington Monument.68 
            
                  Protestors, including a group of Proud Boys, gather at the Capitol on January 6, 2021.
                  Photo by Jon Cherry/Getty Images
               
            
            Shortly after 11:00 a.m., the Proud Boys arrived at the west side of the Capitol,
               near a reflecting pool. From there, they marched to the east front of the Capitol.
               Surveillance footage shows the Proud Boys passing Garfield Circle on the southwest
               corner of the Capitol at 11:15 a.m.69 They walked north towards the Peace Circle next, and surveillance cameras captured
               them on video there at approximately 11:21 a.m.70  There was just one USCP officer standing guard at the Peace Circle fence at the
               time.71 
            As the Proud Boys paraded around the Capitol grounds, Nick Quested, a documentary
               filmmaker who spent time with the group, recalled them taunting USCP officers. One
               Proud Boy told the officers to [r]emember your oath, [c]hoose a side, and [b]e
               on the right side of history.72 By 11:41 a.m., the Proud Boys made their way around to the east side of the Capitol,
               crossing along Constitution Avenue.73 While on the east front, they posed for pictures with members of their Arizona delegation,
               who were clearly identifiable by their orange caps.74 They then walked back across the north side of the Capitol towards the National Mall,
               where they stopped to eat at food trucks.75 The Proud Boys stayed by the food trucks until they returned to the Peace Circle
               at approximately 12:49 p.m.76 
            8.3 The Initial Attack
            Within minutes of arriving at the Peace Circle, the Proud Boys and their associates
               launched the attack on the U.S. Capitol. The circle is the site of the Peace Monument,
               a statue erected from 1877 to 1878 to commemorate naval deaths at sea during the Civil
               War with two classically robed womenone woman representing grief, covering her face, and the other woman representing
               history. The woman standing in for history holds a tablet that reads, They died
               that their country might live.77  
            The Peace Circles geographical location is crucially important for understanding
               how the January 6th, attack unfolded. It sits at the end of Pennsylvania Avenue, just
               in front of the U.S. Capitol. At the conclusion of his speech at the Ellipse, President
               Trump directed rally attendees to march down Pennsylvania Avenue to the U.S. Capitol.
               Their shortest natural path would lead them right to the Peace Circle and to the northwest
               side of the Capitol grounds, also known as the West Plaza. By the time rally-goers
               arrived, the Proud Boys and their allies had already removed the fencing that stood
               in the crowds way. As a result, thousands of people streamed into the restricted
               Capitol grounds with relative ease. 
            When the Proud Boys arrived back at the Peace Circle at 12:49 p.m., they still had
               about 200 to 300 members and many other protestors had joined them.78 Shortly after arriving, the Proud Boys incited the crowd with antagonistic chants
               such as 1776.79 Officer Caroline Edwards, who was standing guard, explained to the Select Committee
               that the Proud Boys asked her and the other USCP officers if they could walk past
               the fencing and talk to the officers. No, she replied. The Proud Boys and others
               immediately turned on Edwards and her fellow officers, referring to them as Nancy
               Pelosis dogs and shouting.80 
            At approximately 12:51 p.m., Quested captured a rioter named Ryan Samsel with his
               arm around Proud Boys leader Joe Biggs, who led the chants.81 Samsel subsequently claimed that Biggs encouraged him to push through the barricades
               and, when Samsel hesitated to follow through, Biggs flashed a gun, questioned his
               manhood and repeated his demand to move to the front and challenge the police.82 Biggs has contested Samsels version of events.83 After speaking with Biggs, Samsel breached the outer fencing of the Peace Circle
               at 12:53 p.m.84 The first set of fencing at the Peace Circle was staged on 1st Street Northwest,
               with the second set of fencing not far behind. Once Samsel breached the outer fencing,
               USCP officers, including Officer Edwards, moved from their posts to meet Samsel and
               other rioters.85
            In less than a minute, at 12:54 p.m., the rioters pushed USCP officers to the ground,
               removed the fencing, and quickly stormed east towards the U.S. Capitol building.86  Officer Edwards was thrown to the ground, causing her to hit her head on concrete
               steps.87 
            Two Proud Boys from New York, Dominic Pezzola and William Pepe, were among those leading
               the march to the next line of security barriers.88 Pepe, an employee of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in upstate New York,
               took sick leave to travel to Washington for the January 6th events.89 Pepe dragged part of the fence away at the next security barrier, ensuring that USCP
               officers were left defenseless.90 The Proud Boys actions were not spontaneous. Jeffrey Finley, a Proud Boys leader
               from West Virginia, later admitted there appeared to be a coordinated effort to pull
               the barricades apart.91 Proud Boy Jeremy Bertino admitted to similar facts when pleading guilty to seditious
               conspiracy, stating stated that he believed . . . that the purpose of traveling to Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, was to stop the
               certification of the Electoral College Vote, and that the MOSD leaders were willing
               to do whatever it would take, including using force against police and others, to
               achieve that objective. Based on discussions he and other Proud Boys leaders had
               in the leadup to January 6th, he believed that storming the Capitol would achieve
               the groups goal of stopping Congress from certifying the Electoral College Vote.
               Bertino understood that storming the Capitol or its grounds would be illegal and would
               require using force against police or other government officials.92
            Parallel to the Peace Circle, at the Garfield Circle walkway located at the southeast
               corner of the Capitol grounds, rioters breached the fencing at 12:55 p.m. and began
               rushing the West Plaza where they would converge with others from the Peace Circle.93 
            By 12:58 p.m., the crowd filled the lower West Plaza of the Capitol just below the
               inauguration stage that had been built for the ceremony scheduled two weeks later.
               After the initial breaches, the USCP was able to deploy enough officers to stop the
               rioters from advancing past the base of the inauguration stage. More importantly,
               rioter momentum was further halted when the first group of MPD officers arrived on
               scene at 1:11 p.m.,94 almost precisely as President Trump finished his Ellipse speech. The MPD officers
               initially pushed back the rioters on the West Plaza, slowing them down before they
               would later breach the Capitol.95
            A stalemate ensued on the West Plaza before rioters were able to make any further
               progress. Rally-goers arriving from the Ellipse provided crucial momentum.
            8.4 President Trumps Mob Descends on the U.S. Capitol
            Toward the end of his speech at the Ellipse, President Trump made sure an already angry crowd of his supporters stayed enraged. We fight like
               hell[,] and if you dont fight like hell, youre not going to have a country anymore, the President told the tens of thousands
               of people who had assembled at the Ellipse, or in the vicinity. About one minute later, President Trump directed those in attendance to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue . . . to the Capitol. The President told the people they were going to try and give Republicans,
               including his own Vice President, the kind of pride and boldness that they need to
               take back our country.96 
             Theres enough people here to storm the Capitol, a member of the crowd said at 1:06
               p.m., just as the President was concluding his remarks.97 Ronald Sandlin, who pleaded guilty to and has been sentenced for felonies committed on January 6th, including telling officers in the Capitol that [y]oure going to die, watched the Presidents speech from a nearby restaurant and live-streamed a video
               in which he encouraged other patriots to take the Capitol.98  Sandlin repeated the phrase freedom is paid for with blood several times during
               his video.99  
            Were getting ready to go march on Capitol Hill. Were gonna go fuck some shit up, Cody Mattice, another January 6th defendant who pleaded guilty and has been sentenced,100 said while walking to the Capitol. Mattice later added: Were getting up front, and were taking this shit.101 Ryan Nichols, who was charged with eight felonies, livestreamed a diatribe as he marched towards the Capitol at 1:40 p.m. Nichols echoed the Presidents unconstitutional claim that Vice President Pence had
               the power to decide the election himself. Im hearing that Pence just caved . . . Im telling you if Pence caved, were gonna drag motherfuckers through the streets, Nichols said.102 Cut their heads off! Nichols yelled with his codefendant Harkrider, before encouraging others to join Republican protestors [who] are trying to enter the House right now.103
            On the way to the Capitol, Oath Keeper Jessica Watkins chatted with others in a Zello group named Stop the Steal J6. Watkins said that 100% of the Ellipse crowd was marching on the Capitol, because it has spread
               like wildfire that Pence has betrayed us.104 As she approached the Capitol with a contingent of Oath Keepers, Watkins said: Im probably gonna go silent when I get there cause Im a be a little busy.105 Donald Hazard, a Three Percenter from Texas who claimed to be allied with Proud Boys on January 6th, told a Washington Post reporter that he wanted his face recorded on video as he marched to the Capitol. I want the enemy to know exactly who is coming after them, Hazard explained.106
            Leaders of the Stop the Steal movement continued to incite the crowd during the
               march as well. Alex Jones of InfoWars arrived at the Ellipse shortly before 9:00 a.m. on the morning of January 6th.107 After some initial difficulty gaining access to the event area, Jones was seated
               in the VIP section.108 While Jones stayed to listen to a portion of President Trumps speech, planning for
               the crowds march to the Capitol was already underway and Jones intended to leave the Ellipse early to lead the march. The origins of the
               plan to have Jones lead the march are unclear. Jones has publicly stated that the White House told me three days before, we are
               going to have you lead the March.109 Stop the Steals Ali Alexander also believed the White House wanted him to lead
               a march to the Capitol.110 It is likely that both got that idea from Caroline Wren, a Republican fundraiser
               who helped organize the Ellipse event.111 Jones texted Wren at 12:27 p.m., asking when he should leave the Ellipse and begin the march.112 
            While Wren originally expected Jones, Roger Stone, and retired Lt. Gen. Flynn to march to the Capitol, Stone did not attend the Ellipse rally and so he was not present to accompany Jones on the march as planned.113 Additionally, while President Trump was delivering his speech, Wren asked Flynn if he was going to march with Jones. Flynn responded, Hell, no. Its freezing.114
            
                  Alex Jones uses a bullhorn to speak to crowd on January 6, 2021.
                  Photo by Jon Cherry/Getty Images
               
            
            While Stone and Flynn did not march, Jones and Alexander led others to the Capitol, though it is not clear how many people followed them.115 Jones and Alexander gathered with Joness camera and security crew just outside the event perimeter, near Freedom Plaza, to
               discuss their plans.116 The discussion, recorded by Alex Joness film crew, sheds some light on what Jones and Alexander knew about the Presidents
               plans and what they intended for the march. The group, which included InfoWars host Owen Shroyer, huddled outside the Ellipse security perimeter to discuss how best to proceed. They tried to predict the Presidential motorcades route to the Capitol. The video shows Alex
               Jones telling his crew, I think the Wren lady, wheres she at? She knows what they
               said they were going to do. Everything shes said has been accurate, so we need to
               call her real quick.117 They then decided to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, as the President had directed in his speech.
            Shroyer recommended the group wait for President Trump to finish speaking, and they agreed to at least delay their departure from Freedom
               Plaza to allow Jones to gather a crowd. 118 Jones began speaking from his bullhorn, imploring people to gather and walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.119 While using the bullhorn, Jones told the crowd that they were experiencing the second
               American revolution, 120 and stated, [l]ets go take our country back. Trump is only minutes away. Lets start marching to the
               Capitol, peacefully.121 
            Proud Boys were among the crowd Jones gathered during his march. Matthew Walter, president
               of a Tennessee chapter of the organization,122 was near the National Mall with two other Proud Boys from Tennessee and decided to
               join Jones.123 Other, more prominent members of the Proud Boys appear to have been in contact with Jones
               and Shroyer about the events of January 6th and on that day. Records for Enrique Tarrios phone show that while the attack on the Capitol was ongoing, he texted with Jones
               three times and Shroyer five times.124 Ethan Nordeans phone records reflect that he exchanged 23 text messages with Shroyer between January
               4th and 5th, and that he had one call with him on each of those days.125 Records of Joseph Biggss communications show that he texted with Shroyer eight times
               on January 4th and called him at approximately 11:15 a.m. on January 6th, while Biggs and his fellow Proud Boys were marching at and around the Capitol.126 
            Once they had marched the length of Pennsylvania Avenue and reached the west side
               of the Capitol, Jones and Alexander used a bullhorn to continue directing those around
               them to the east side, making further references to President Trumps alleged imminent arrival. A video recorded by a rallygoer at 1:51 p.m. shows
               Jones and Alexander standing together as Jones encourages the crowd to proceed to the east side of the Capitol. He tells those listening that weve got a permit on
               the other side, its great that this happened, but Trumps not going to come when
               weve taken this over. We are not Antifa, we are not BLM.127 
            Jones has repeatedly claimed that he tried to calm the crowd, but his actions also coincided with two police line breaches and one breach of the Capitol building itself. At 1:57
               p.m., minutes after Jones encouraged rally goers to move east, newly arrived protestors breached the bike rack fencing
               used to keep the crowd away from the east side steps.128 After the breach, police retreated  to the base of the large set of steps behind
               them and the crowd moved forward to meet the newly  established police line.129
            Jones followed shortly behind the crowd that led the initial east fence breach, and
               his arrival coincided with the next breach up the east stairs. Publicly available
               video shows Jones already departed from the west side, rounding the north side of
               the Capitol on the way to the east side at 2:00 p.m.130 As he was walking, Jones told his group, those fucking cops need to fucking back
               off man.131 He was then asked about Vice President Pence, to which Jones responded: he floundered and was neutral, he passed the ball.132 At the conclusion of the video, one of Joness camera crew can be heard saying, lets take a break here. Let me talk to this cop
               to see if I can get Alex up there to deescalate the situation. Other video released
               by Jones shows one of his camera crew interacting with USCP officers and asking how
               Jones can help deescalate the situation.133 The Select Committees review of the evidence showed that Jones simultaneously called on the crowd to fight and start a revolution, while occasionally peppering his
               rhetoric with the word peacefully.  
            Minutes after Joness arrival on the scene, at approximately 2:06 p.m., rioters breached the new police
               line and stormed up the stairs towards the Columbus Doors (also known as the Rotunda Doors).134 The crowds cheers and celebration as they move up the steps can be heard while Joness camera crew negotiates with USCP officers nearby. 135  As explained below, the rioters broke through another key breach point with Jones
               and Alexander on the scene just minutes later.
            8.5 The Mob Surges
            Far-right extremists continued to lead the charge as protestors streamed onto the
               U.S. Capitols restricted grounds. On the north side of the West Plaza, there was
               a scaffold with stairs used by construction workers to build the inauguration stage.
               Law enforcement officers were stationed at the base of the stairs, preventing rioters
               from climbing to the upper West Plaza, where doors to the Capitol building itself
               were located. At 1:49 p.m., MPD declared a riot at the Capitol.136
            
                  Rioters clash with police at the Capitol on January 6, 2021.
                  Photo by Brent Stirton/Getty Images
               
            
            Shortly before 1:50 p.m., rioters gathered in front of this scaffold on the northwest
               corner of the Capitol. The rioters included Proud Boys and other extremists. One rioter,
               Guy Reffitt, belonged to a Three Percenter group from Texas.137 By approximately 1:50 p.m., he stood at the front of the pack near the scaffold,
               carrying a pistol and flexicuffs.138 He wore body armor under a blue jacket and a helmet with a mounted body camera.139 
            Reffitt advanced on the police line, absorbing rubber bullets and pushing through
               chemical spray.140 As he recounted shortly after the attack, Reffitt got everything started moving
               forward.141 He started the fire and the presence of law enforcement was not going to prevent
               Reffitts advance.142 According to Reffitt:
            [T]here was no reason for me to give up because I had come so far to do what I wanted,
               what we wanted and needed to do. And I had a mindset. I didnt mean to actually be
               the first guy up there. I didnt even mean to do that. I just, the adrenaline and
               knowing that I cant let my country fall.143 
            Reffitt had indeed planned for violence on January 6th, noting on December 28, 2020,
               that he would be in full battle rattle.144 While driving to Washington, DC on January 5th, Reffitt expressed his desire to drag[]
               those people out of the Capitol by their ankles and install[] a new government.145 On the morning of January 6th, Reffitt clarified the target, telling other members of his militia group and those gathered around him at the Ellipse that Im taking the Capitol with everybody fucking else and that [w]ere all going to drag them mother fuckers out kicking and screaming . . . . I just want to see Pelosis head hit every fucking stair on the way out . . . And Mitch McConnell too. Fuck em all.146 Reffitt was convicted and ultimately sentenced to 7 years in prison for his conduct.147
            A member of the Proud Boys, Daniel Scott, helped lead the charge up the scaffolding
               stairs.148 Scott, also known as Milkshake, had marched with the Proud Boys from the Washington
               Monument to the Capitol. During the march, Scott was recorded in a video yelling,
               Lets take the fucking Capitol!149 Someone else responded, Lets not fucking yell that, alright? And then Nordean
               added: It was Milkshake, man, you know . . . idiot. Scott had apparently blurted out the Proud Boys plan. At the scaffolding,
               Scott then helped others take the U.S. Capitol. While wearing a blue cap with white
               lettering that read, Gods, Guns &amp; Trump, he pushed police officers backwards, clearing
               a path for the rioters. Another Proud Boy, Chris Worrell, was also nearby.150 As rioters massed under the scaffold, Worrell sprayed officers with OC (or pepper)
               spray. 151 Other Proud Boys were present at the scaffold, including Micajah Jackson152 and Matthew Greene.153 
            The attack at and in the vicinity of the scaffolding cleared a path for a wave of
               rioters who forced their way up the stairs and to the U.S. Capitol building itself.154 As the rioters rushed up the stairs, another January 6th defendant, Ryan Kelley,
               climbed up the scaffolding around 1:51 p.m.155 In the ensuing minutes he waved people on, encouraging them to follow.156 Kelleywho ran in the Republican primary to be the governor of Michigan in 2022denied to the Select Committee that he had climbed the scaffolding to wave people
               on.157 The FBI arrested Kelley a few months after his deposition.158 
            By 2:00 p.m., rioters at the top of the scaffolding stairs were only feet away from
               Capitol building doors and windows. 
            8.6 The United States Capitol is Breached
            Incited by President Trump, over the course of the next hour, extremists, conspiracy
               theorists and others breached the U.S. Capitol building at several locations. They
               probed for weaknesses in the buildings defenses, battling law enforcement personnel
               who stood in their way. Once again, the Proud Boys and other extremists played conspicuous
               roles.  
            The Senate Wing is Breached at 2:13 p.m.
            At 2:13 p.m., Dominic Pezzola, a Proud Boy from New York, smashed a window on the
               Senate wing.159 This was the first breach of the Capitol building. Pezzola used a riot shield he
               stole from a law enforcement officer to break through the window. After climbing through,
               rioters were able to easily open a nearby Senate wing door from the insidegiving them unfettered passage into the building at 2:14 p.m. Two minutes later, at
               approximately 2:16 p.m., rioters pushed opened a second door, the Senate fire door,
               from the inside.160 Just as the building was being breached, Vice President Pence and Speaker Pelosi
               were ushered off the Senate and House floors, respectively.161 
            The first person to enter the Capitol building was a Kentucky native named Michael
               Sparks. Sparks had expressed his desire to kill people after watching protests in
               the summer of 2020.162 Following one of President Trumps calls to Washington, DC on December 30, 2020,
               Sparks answered that he would be there.163 
            As Pezzola entered the building, he was joined by other noteworthy extremists and
               conspiracy theorists. Robert Gieswein, an individual from Colorado affiliated with
               Three Percenters who espoused conspiracy beliefs, climbed through the Senate wing
               window.164 Doug Jensen, a QAnon adherent, was part of this first cadre of people to enter the
               Capitol as well.165 Jensen wore a brazen Q shirt. Jensen later told authorities that he intentionally
               positioned himself to be among the first people inside the United States Capitol because . . . he wanted to have his t-shirt seen on video so that Q could get the credit.166 Another prominent QAnon believer, Jacob Chansley (a.k.a. the QAnon Shaman), also
               entered through the Senate wing door at approximately 2:14 p.m.167
            
                  Doug Jensen and rioters confront police after storming the Capitol.
                  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
               
            
            White supremacists and Confederate sympathizers were among the first rioters to enter
               the U.S. Capitol. Kevin Seefried and his son, Hunter, entered the building at approximately
               2:13 p.m. through the Senate wing window smashed by Proud Boy Dominic Pezzola.168 Kevin Seefried carried a Confederate Battle Flag with him and unfurled it inside
               the building. According to some historians, while the Confederate Flag has appeared
               in the building before, it was the first time that an insurrectionist ever carried
               the banner inside the U.S. Capitol.169 According to court filings, Hunter Seefried helped punch out the Senate wing window
               and then clear the broken glass before he, his father and others entered the Capitol.170 Kevin Seefried was found guilty of obstructing an official proceeding, which is a
               felony offense, as well as four misdemeanors.171 The Department of Justice has alleged that at 2:16 p.m., just 3 minutes after the
               Senate wing was first breached, five individuals associated with the Nick Fuentess
               white nationalist America First movement entered the U.S. Capitol.172 The five, all of whom are in their 20s, have been identified as: Joseph Brody, Thomas
               Carey, Gabriel Chase, Jon Lizak, and Paul Lovley.173 Four of the five initially met at an America First event and attended subsequent
               events together.174  Nick Fuentes and other America First leaders espouse a belief that they are defending
               against the demographic and cultural changes in America.175 Online researchers say that Brody is the masked man seen in a photo wearing a MAGA
               hat and holding a rifle in front of a Nazi flag.176 (The photo was not taken on January 6th.) As discussed in Chapter 6, members of the
               America First movement, commonly known as Groypers, were well-represented at Stop
               the Steal events in late 2020 and these rallies helped pave the road to January 6th.
               Indeed, at least three members of the groupLovley, Lizak and Chaseattended the Stop
               the Steal, March for Trump rally in Washington, DC on November 14, 2020.177
            On January 6th, Brody and his America First associates made their way to various points
               inside and outside of the Capitol after the initial breach, including House Speaker
               Nancy Pelosis conference room and office, as well as the U.S. Senate Chamber. 178 After exiting the Capitol, the group went to the north side of the building. One
               of the five, Brody, and another rioter allegedly used a metal barricade to assault
               a law enforcement officer who was defending the North Door.179 (The attack on the North Door is discussed below.) Brody and Chase also allegedly
               helped others destroy media equipment.180 Still another America First associate, Riley Williams, directed rioters up a staircase
               to Speaker Pelosis office and was accused of aiding and abetting the theft of a 
               laptop found there.181Other white supremacists were among the first rioters to enter the U.S. Capitol. Timothy
               Hale-Cusanelli, an Army Reservist from New Jersey who was identified by a confidential
               source to law enforcement as an an avowed white supremacist and Nazi sympathizer,
               entered through the Senate wing breach around 2:14 p.m.182 Hale-Cusanelli [u]sed tactical hand signals to direct other members of the mob,
               and he commanded them to advance on the Capitol.183 Afterwards, he bragged to a friend that January 6th was exhilarating, that he hoped for a civil war, and that the tree of liberty
               must be refreshed with the blood of patriots and tyrants.184 Robert Packer was also among the first rioters to enter the Capitol, and he made
               his way into the Crypt by 2:25 p.m.185 Packer was wearing a Camp Auschwitz sweatshirt, a symbol of Nazi hate ideology,
               at the time.186
            After breaking in, some of the first rioters headed north toward the Senate chambers.187 Officer Eugene Goodman, a USCP officer, intercepted them before they headed up the
               stairs leading to the chambers. Immediately after entering, a rioter asked Officer
               Goodman, Where are the [M]embers at? and where are they counting the votes?188 Jensen, Gieswein, Sparks, and others stalked Officer Goodman through the halls of
               the Senate.189 Jensen demanded that Officer  Goodman and other USCP officers arrest Vice President
               Pence.190 Sparks chanted, This is our America!191  Other rioters who entered through the Senate wing door clashed with police offices
               at the Senate carriage door located on the northeast side of the Capitol.192  When the rioters followed Officer Goodman up the stairs to the Senate Chamber, they
               were stopped by a line of USCP officers outside the Ohio Clock Tower.193
            Joe Biggs of the Proud Boys entered the Capitol shortly after the first breach. At
               2:14 p.m., Biggs walked through the senate wing door and moved north. Part of his
               route was captured in videos posted on Parler, a right-wing social media site.194 Someone recorded the Proud Boys leader shortly after he entered the Capitol and asked
               him, Hey Biggs what do you gotta say?195 Smiling, Biggs replied: this is awesome!196 Other Proud Boys were seen with Biggs, or near him, as he entered the Capitol. One
               of them is Paul Rae, a Proud Boys member from Florida, who appears to have communicated
               directly with Biggs after they entered through the door.197 Another Proud Boy from Florida, Arthur Jackman, was seen with his hand on Biggss
               right shoulder. Jackman became involved in the Proud Boys to support Donald Trump, was in Washington
               on January 6th to support President Trump and to stop the steal and believe[d] the election was
               stolen.195 Still another, Joshua Pruitt, who was clad in a Punisher shirt, entered the Capitol
               through the Senate wing door around this time.198  At approximately 2:17 p.m., 3 minutes after entering the U.S. Capitol for the first
               time, Biggs exited through another door.199 
            At 2:43 p.m., law enforcement was able to regain control of the Senate wing door,
               forcing all the rioters out. But their success lasted for only 5 minutes. At 2:48
               p.m., rioters again breached the Senate wing door, pushing law enforcement out of
               the way.200 The second breach was one of the more violent breaches of the day, with the mob forcefully
               pushing law enforcement backwards until the pathway was clear for them to enter.
            The Columbus Doors (East Rotunda Doors) are breached at 2:24 p.m. and 2:38 p.m.
            While the Proud Boys and other extremists were overwhelming law enforcement at the West Plaza scaffolding, another group led the attack on security barriers on the East Plaza. At 2:06 p.m., a crowd broke through security barriers and charged a set of doors just outside the Rotunda.201 The mobs surge occurred just minutes after Alex Jones arrived on the scene.202 The crowds cheers and celebration as they move up the steps can be heard while Joness camera crew negotiates with USCP officers nearby.203
            Once rioters had filled the Rotunda stairs, Jones and his team, along with the Proud Boy Walter, ascended the stairs. They moved into the thick of the crowd at the top of the stairs, where Jones began calling for peace but also revolution, leading the crowd in chants
               of 1776 and other bellicose rhetoric.204 Publicly available video shows that Jones reached the top of the stairs at 2:18 p.m.205 Walter told the Select Committee that he thought Jones was successful in getting
               some people down, but I also think that may have created enough space for people
               to be able to move, whereas before you couldnt move.206 Apparently, Joness security team also realized he was not successfully controlling the crowd, as one
               of his security guards reportedly told him, Alex, theyre going to blame this all
               on you, we got to get out of here as fast as possible.207 By approximately 2:21 p.m., Jones began descending the stairs.208 Despite claiming to make attempts to calm the crowd, Jones further incited the mob as he departed, loudly proclaiming we will never submit to the new world order and then leading the crowd in the chant
               fight for Trump.209
            At 2:24 p.m., rioters gained entrance to the Capitol through the doors leading into
               the Rotunda,210 an entrance that was only a few feet directly behind Jones as he was speaking. As the Rotunda was breached
               by rioters, Jones and Alexander left the area and decided to leave the Capitol complex area altogether.211
            Law enforcement officials were able to thwart the initial breach of the doors leading into the Rotunda. By 2:28 p.m., they temporarily regained control and stopped rioters from entering.212 But their success was short-lived. Within ten minutes, the doors were breached once again.213 And two members of the Proud BoysRonald Loehrke and James Haffnerhelped lead the attack.214 
            Loehrke was allegedly recruited by Nordean, the Proud Boys leader, for January 6th. In late December 2020, Nordean asked Loehrke via text message if he was coming to DC.215 After Loehrke indicated he was, Nordean said he wanted Loehrke on the front line with him.216 Loehrke replied, Sounds good man. 217 Loehrke and Haffner marched with the Proud Boys from the Washington Monument to the Capitol grounds and were present during the breach at the Peace Circle.218 The pair made their way to the east side of the Capitol, where they began removing the security barriers and resisting USCP officers. 219 Other members of the crowd joined. Eventually, the rioters breached these barriers
               too, allowing them to reach the doors of the Rotunda. 
            When the rioters reached the Columbus Doors, they were again stopped by USCP officers. But as the officers explained to the Select Committee, the rioters pushed them against the doors and sprayed them with OC spray (commonly known as pepper spray), making it impossible to defend the Capitol. 220 James Haffner was one of the rioters who allegedly sprayed the officers.221
            Shortly after Haffner and others assaulted the USCP officers, they were able to breach
               the Columbus Doors at approximately 2:38 p.m. A Proud Boys contingentincluding Haffner, Loehrke, and Joe Biggsthen entered the Capitol.222 It was the second time that Biggs entered the U.S. Capitol that day.
            A military-style stack of Oath Keepers entered through the Columbus Doors as well. The Oath Keeper members attended the Ellipse rally, where they were provided personal security details for VIPs in attendance.223 Afterwards, they marched to the Capitol, as directed by President Trump.
            Stewart Rhodes, the leader of the Oath Keepers, monitored the attack on the Capitol from just outside, including during the assault on the Columbus Doors. At 2:28 p.m., Rhodes texted members of the F.O.S., or Friends of Stone, (FOS) Signal chatwhich included Roger Stone, the Proud Boys Enrique Tarrio, Ali Alexander, Alex Jones, and others224that he was at the Back door of the US Capitol.225 Rhodes followed up at 2:30 p.m. by texting members of another chat that there was Pounding on the doors of the Capitol.226 
            At 2:32 p.m., Rhodes held a three-way call with two other Oath Keepers, Kelly Meggs and Michael Green.227 Three minutes later, Meggss group (Stack 1) started pushing through the rioters amassed on the East Plaza steps in a military-stack formation,
               with each person placing a hand on the shoulder of the person in front.228 This stack entered the Capitol around 2:40 p.m.229 
            One minute later, Rhodes was caught on camera on the Upper West Terrace responding to a rioter who said the Members of Congress must be shitting their pants inside. Rhodes replied: Amen They need to shit their fucking pants. Sic semper tyrannis.230
            Once inside, Stack 1 moved through the Rotunda. At 2:44 p.m., Stack 1 pushed into the Senate hallway, which was filled with officers blocking the way. Push, push, push. Get in there. They cant hold us, Watkins implored the others. However, the officers repelled their attack, pushing them back into the Rotunda.231
            Other Oath Keepers made their way to the Capitol as Stack 1 tried to advance. Joshua James and another group of Oath Keepers (Stack 2) pushed through the Columbus Doors at approximately 3:15 p.m. 232 This is my fucking Capitol. This is not yours. This is my building, James shouted at officers inside the Rotunda who were trying to push the rioters out of the Capitol.233
            Additional Breach Points
            In addition to the breaches discussed above, rioters opened other entry points into the U.S. Capitol. The Upper West Terrace door, which leads directly into the Rotunda, was breached at 2:33 p.m. when rioters opened it from the inside.234 
            Inside the Capitol, rioters broke through the police lines, such as in the Crypt, a space located directly underneath the Rotunda. The Crypt is anchored by a marble compass stone, marking the center of the building, and is lined with 13 statues representing the original American colonies.235 The rioters quickly moved towards the House Chambers and, by 2:40 p.m., started to crowd the main doors outside the Chambers, moving to the east side near the Speakers lobby. As they moved to the east side, rioters opened the east House doors from the inside at 2:41 p.m., allowing rioters from the northeast side of the Capitol to enter.236
            The north doors were the last Capitol doors breached. At 3:10 p.m., rioters entered through the north doors where they were quickly met by USCP.237 Within a minute, the hallway just inside the doors was filled with rioters. At 3:12 p.m., a combination of USCP and MPD officers forcefully pushed the rioters out of the
               doors.238 However, rioters continued to attack just outside the north doors throughout the afternoon and evening. 
            The north doors have an outer entranceway that is separated by a vestibule from a set of inner doors that lead directly into the Capitol.
               Rioters threw bricks at the doors and forcefully tried to stop police officers from clearing the area.239 Law enforcement officers briefly opened the inner doors to spray a chemical irritant
               that was intended to disperse the mob.240 But the rioters continued to fight. For instance, as the crowd held the outer doors
               open, John Thomas Gordon of West Virginia repeatedly threw a heavy projectile at the inner doors, while swearing at the officers.241 Another rioter gave Gordon, who came to Washington to attend the Stop the Steal rally, a pair of goggles so he would withstand the chemical spray. Gordon kicked the inner doors as he and others desperately tried to enter the Capitol. 242 Law enforcement held the doors, withstanding the mobs best efforts to break in.
               
            As law enforcement officers started to clear the building, rioters continued to fight police officers at the tunnel on the West Plaza. Rioters violently struck officers, including MPD Officer Daniel Hodges, and sprayed them with OC spray. Although rioters did not break through the police line at the tunnel, they were able to successfully break a window just north of it. There is no surveillance coverage for this area, so Select Committee staff was unable to determine the precise time of the breach. According
               to open-source videos, however, the breach appears to occur at approximately 4:15 p.m.243 
            8.7 President Trump Pours Fuel on the Fire
            After Dominic Pezzola and others breached the Capitol at 2:13 p.m., a mob quickly
               entered and headed towards the Senate and House Chambers, where Members were meeting.244 As the crowd moved through the Capitol, they chanted Fight for Trump and Stop
               the Steal! They also chanted Nancy, Nancy as they searched for Speaker Pelosi.245 At 2:18 p.m., the House went into recess as hundreds of rioters confronted USCP officers
               inside the Crypt, which is a short distance from the first breach point.246 
            USCP officers formed a line across the Crypt in an attempt to stop the mobs advance.247 By 2:21 p.m., the rioters had tried to break through police lines, but they were
               temporarily unsuccessful.248 
            As USCP officers held the line inside the Crypt, President Trump poured fuel on the
               fire, tweeting at 2:24 p.m.: 
             Mike Pence didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our
               Country and our Constitution, giving states a chance to certify a corrected set of
               facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.
               USA demands the truth!249 
            One minute later, the mob violently pushed through the USCP officers in the Crypt
               and continued moving south towards the House Chamber.250 Joshua Pruitt, the Proud Boy dressed in a Punisher shirt, was at the front of the
               line as rioters broke through in the Crypt.251 Officer David Millard told the Select Committee that rioters in the Crypt claimed
               they were in the Capitol because their boss told them to be theremeaning President Trump.252 Officer Millard also recalled members of the mob telling him they were there to stop
               the steal.253 
            After breaking through the police line in the Crypt, the mob pursued USCP officers
               as they retreated to the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center (CVC). Pruitt was among the
               rioters who advanced into the CVC, where he came close to Senator Chuck Schumer.254 When the USCP officers attempted to lower metal barriers to halt the crowds momentum,
               another small group of Proud Boys immediately interceded to prevent the barricades
               from coming down.255 The Proud Boy contingent included three men from the Kansas City, Kansas area: William
               Chrestman,256 Chris Kuehne,257 and Louis Colon.258 Felicia Konold and Cory Konold, two Proud Boy associates from Arizona, joined the Kansas City group while marching from the Washington Monument to the Capitol earlier in the day and were on the scene.259 Two other Proud Boys, Nicholas Ochs and Nicholas DeCarlo, filmed the incident.260 
            Surveillance footage shows Chrestman using a wooden club, or modified axe handle, to prevent the barrier from being lowered
               to the floor.261 Colon later admitted to authorities that he purchased and modified an axe handle to be used as both a walking stick and an improvised weapon on January 6th.262 Colon also told authorities that he attended a meeting with Chrestman and others on the night of January 5th, during which someone asked, do we have patriots here willing to take it by force?
               Colon understood that the individual meant that they should use force against the
               government. This same individual commented that they should go in there and take
               over.263  
            
                  Rioters enter the Senate Chamber.
                  Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images
               
            
            At 2:36 p.m., the mob pushed through a line of USCP officers guarding the House Chamber.264 Rioters also entered the Senate Chamber.265 Within minutes, Jacob Chansley (a.k.a. the QAnon Shaman) entered the Senate Chamber,
               making his way to the Senate dais, where Vice President Pence had been presiding over
               the joint session. An officer asked Chansley to vacate the dais, but instead he shouted,
               Mike Pence is a fucking traitor. Chansley also left a note that read: Its Only
               a Matter of Time. Justice is Coming!266 Surrounded by others, Chansley held a conspiracy-laden prayer session, saying: Thank
               you for allowing the United States of America to be reborn. Thank you for allowing
               us to get rid of the communists, the globalists, and the traitors within our government.267 Other extremists, including at least one associate of the white nationalist America
               First movement, also sat in the Vice Presidents seat.268 
            While law enforcement fought to contain the mob inside the Capitol, the fighting raged
               outside as well. Key agitators continued to fire up the crowd. Nick Fuentes, the leader
               of the America First movement, amplified President Trumps rhetoric aimed at Vice
               President Pence, including the Presidents 2:24 p.m. tweet.269 Speaking through a bullhorn while standing on the Peace Monument, Fuentes shouted:
            We just heard that Mike Pence is not going to reject any fraudulent elector votes!
               Thats right, you heard it here first: Mike Pence has betrayed the United States of
               America. Mike Pence has betrayed the President and he has betrayed the people of the
               United States of Americaand we will never ever forget!270   
            As rioters flowed through the halls and offices inside the Capitol, others broke through
               the defensive lines of USCP and MPD officers on the lower West Plaza at 2:28 p.m.,
               allowing them to take over the inauguration stage.271 According to MPD Officer Michael Fanone, MPD officers were then forced to conduct
               the first fighting withdrawal in the history of the force, with law enforcement
               seeking to reestablish defensive lines to prevent the crowd that had swelled to
               approximately 20,000 from storming the U.S. Capitol.272    
            After surging through the West Plaza, rioters quickly headed towards the West Plaza
               tunnel. The violence that escalated at 2:28 p.m. on the lower West Plaza continued
               as rioters reached the tunnel. By 2:41 p.m., law enforcement retreated inside the
               tunnel, allowing rioters to slowly fill in.273 Just ten minutes later, the mob jammed the tunnel, desperately trying to break through
               the police lines.274 The fighting in and immediately outside of the tunnel raged for over two hours.275 
            Throughout the afternoon, members of the mob struck officers with weapons, shot them
               with OC (or pepper) spray, and dragged officers from the tunnel into the crowd. Lucas
               Denney, a Three Percenter from Texas who carried a baton on January 6th, pushed a
               riot shield into and on top of police officers at the tunnel. The crowd chanted heave-ho!
               as Denney did so.276 Jeffrey Scott Brown sprayed a chemical or pepper spray at officers and pushed the
               front of the line in the tunnel.277 Kyle Young, a January 6th defendant with a long prior criminal history, participated
               in multiple assaults and violence at the tunnel, including using a pole to jab at
               police officers. 
            
                  Rioters assault police officers at a tunnel to the Capitol.
                  Photo by Brent Stirton/Getty Images
               
            
            Youngs 16-year-old son was present during the fighting.278 Robert Morss, a former Army Ranger who wore a military-style vest, participated in
               a heave-ho effort in the tunnel where he and rioters had created a shield wall.279  Peter Schwartz and another rioter passed a large cannister of spray back and forth
               before Schwartzs companion sprayed officers and then the two joined in the heave-ho.280
            One of the most brutal attacks of the day occurred outside the tunnel when rioters
               dragged MPD Officer Michael Fanone into the crowd, and then tased, beat, and robbed
               him while a Blue Lives Matter flag fluttered above him. Albuquerque Head, a rioter
               from Tennessee, grabbed Officer Fanone around the neck and pulled him into the mob.281 I got one! Head shouted.282 Lucas Denney, the Three Percenter, swung his arm and fist at Officer Fanone, grabbed
               him, and pulled him down the stairs.283 Daniel Rodriguez then tased him in the neck. Kyle Young lunged towards Officer Fanone,
               restraining the officers wrist.284 While Young held him, still another rioter, Thomas Sibick, reached towards him and
               forcibly removed his police badge and radio.285 Officer Fanone feared they were after his gun. Members of the crowd yelled: Kill
               him!, Get his gun! and Kill him with his own gun!286 
            In an interview with FBI agents, Daniel Rodriguez admitted his role in the attack
               on Officer Fanone.287 During that same interview, Rodriguez discussed the influences that led him down
               the path to January 6th. Rodriguez was a fan of Alex Joness InfoWars and told FBI
               agents that he became active at rallies after watching the conspiracy show.288 Rodriguez was motivated by Joness decision to support then candidate Trump in 2015.
               289 He also began to affiliate himself with the Three Percenter movement, which he learned
               about by watching InfoWars.290 And when President Trump called for a wild protest in Washington on January 6th,
               Rodriguez thought it was necessary to respond. Trump called us. Trump called us to
               DC, Rodriguez told interviewing agents.291 If hes the commander in chief and the leader of our country, and hes calling for
               help I thought he was calling for help, Rodriguez explained. I thought he wasI
               thought we were doing the right thing.292  
            Rodriguez and another January 6th defendant, Edward Badalian, began preparing for
               violence after President Trumps December 19th tweet. They gathered weapons and tactical
               gear293 and discussed their plans in a Signal chat named, Patriots 45 MAGA Gang. 
             Congress can hang. Ill do it, Rodriguez posted to the chat. Please let us get
               these people dear God. 294 
            Badalian also posted a flyer titled MAGA_CAVALRY, which showed rally points for
               patriot caravans to connect with the Stop The Steal movement in DC.295 The same flyer was popular among Three Percenters and other self-described patriot
               groups. It also garnered the attention of law enforcement. The FBIs Norfolk, Virginia
               division noted in a January 5th intelligence assessment that the flyer was accompanied
               by another image, titled Create Perimeter, which depicted the U.S. Capitol and other
               buildings being surrounded by the same caravans.296  
            8.8 The Evacuation
            When rioters surrounded the perimeter of the Capitol, and reached the Senate and House
               Chambers, Members were forced to evacuate for safety. USCP officers responded to both
               Chambers and served as escorts. By the time the Capitol was breached, the Senate and
               House had split from the joint session, with Senators returning to their Chamber to
               debate the objection to Arizonas electoral vote. The House remained in its Chamber
               to debate the objection.297 
            Starting in the Senate, Vice President Pence was escorted off the floor at 2:12 p.m.
               and was taken to his Senate office. Between 2:12 p.m. and 2:25 p.m., Secret Service
               agents worked to identify potential threats and a route that could be used to transport
               Vice President Pence.298 One of the issues for Vice President Pences evacuation was that the rioters were
               outside the Ohio Clock Tower, which was just feet away from the staircase that Vice
               President Pence could descend to evacuate.299 Eventually, after the mob started filling the entire Capitol, the Secret Service
               made the decision to move Vice President Pence, and he was escorted from the Senate
               at 2:25 p.m.300 By 2:27 p.m., the Vice President can be seen moving toward a secure location connected
               to the Capitol. The Vice President arrived at the secure location  at 2:29 p.m.301 Following the Vice Presidents evacuation, Senators were evacuated at 2:30 p.m.302
            On the House side, Speaker Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and House Majority
               Whip James Clyburn were removed from the House floor at the same time as Vice President
               Pence. By 2:18 p.m., USCP surveillance showed Speaker Pelosi in the basement hallway
               headed towards the garage.303 The surveillance footage also showed Leader Hoyer and Whip Clyburn in the same basement
               as Speaker Pelosi. At 2:23 p.m., Speaker Pelosi and Whip Clyburn were moved to an
               undisclosed location.304  
            Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy was evacuated just after Speaker Pelosi left the Capitol.
               At 2:25 p.m., as rioters were moving through the Crypt and breaking through the east
               Rotunda door, Leader McCarthy and his staff hurriedly evacuated his office.305 At approximately 2:38 p.m., the Members of Congress on the House floor began their
               evacuation.306 Members of Congress can be seen evacuating through the Speakers Lobby when a USCP
               officer fatally shot Ashli Babbitt at 2:44 p.m. 307 Members and staffers were just feet away when Babbitt attempted to climb through
               a shattered glass door. USCP officers had barricaded the door with furniture to prevent
               the rioters from gaining direct access to elected officials. 
            
                  Members of Congress are evacuated from the House Chamber.
                  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
               
            
            The congressional Members in the House Gallery were evacuated after the Members on
               the House floor. Congressional Members in the Gallery had to wait to be evacuated
               because rioters were still roaming the hallways right outside the Chamber. At 2:49
               p.m., as Members were trying to evacuate the House Gallery, the USCP emergency response
               team cleared the hallways with long rifles so that the Members could be escorted to
               safety.308 USCP surveillance footage shows several rioters lying on the ground, with long rifles
               pointed at them, as Members evacuate in the background.309 By 3:00 p.m., the area had been cleared and Members were evacuated from the House
               gallery to a secure location. 310
            8.9 Clearing the U.S. Capitol Building and Restricted Grounds
            Shortly after law enforcement officers evacuated the House and Senate Members, they
               started to clear rioters out of the Capitol and off the grounds. Starting before 3:00
               p.m., law enforcement spent approximately three hours pushing rioters out of the Capitol
               building and off the East and West Plazas. In general, law enforcement cleared rioters
               out of the Capitol through three doors: (1) the House side door located on the northeast
               side of the Capitol; (2) the Columbus Doors (East Rotunda Doors); and (3) the Senate
               wing door, which was next to the first breach point. As discussed above, the Proud
               Boys and other extremists led the charge at the latter two locations during the early
               stages of the attack.
            Outside the Capitol, law enforcement pushed the mob from the upper West Plaza towards
               the East Plaza, crossing the north doors. Eventually, these rioters were forced to
               exit the Capitol grounds on the east side. The last point where rioters were removed
               was the lower West Plazathe scene of some of the most intense hand-to-hand fighting that day. After law enforcement
               cleared the tunnel, where violence had raged for hours, police officers corralled
               rioters to the west and away from the Capitol building.311 
            After rioters first breached the Senate wing door on the first floor, they immediately
               moved south towards the House Chamber. This route took them to the Cryptwith the mob filling this room by 2:24 p.m. This was also one of the first rooms that
               law enforcement cleared as they started to secure the building. By 2:49 p.m., law
               enforcement officers cleared the Crypt by pushing towards the Senate wing door and
               up the stairs to the Rotunda.312 
            Around the same time that police officers cleared the Crypt, they also removed rioters
               from hallways immediately adjacent to the House and Senate Chambers. On the House
               side, rioters were pushed out shortly before 3:00 p.m. The House hallway immediately
               in front of the House Chambers door was cleared at 2:56 p.m.313 The mob outside of the Speakers lobby was pushed out of the House side door at 2:57
               p.m.314 
            USCP officers were able to quickly clear out the Senate Chamber, which was initially
               breached at 2:42 p.m.315 Rioters were cleared from the hallways outside the Senate by 3:09 p.m.316 Surveillance shows officers checking the Senate Gallery and hallways for rioters;
               there are no people on camera by this time.317 
            The Rotunda served as a key point where the mob settled during the Capitol attack.
               For example, at 2:45 p.m., hundreds of people can be seen standing in the Rotunda.318 It appears law enforcement officers funneled rioters from other parts of the Capitol
               into the Rotunda. Once they had President Trumps supporters herded there, law enforcement
               started to push them towards the east doors shortly after 3:00 p.m. At 3:25 p.m.,
               law enforcement successfully pushed rioters out of the Rotunda and closed the doors
               so that the room could remain secure.319 By 3:43 p.m., just 18 minutes after the Rotunda doors were closed, law enforcement
               successfully pushed the rioters out of the east doors of the Capitol.320 
            The last rioters in the Capitol building were cleared out of the Senate wing doorthe same location where rioters first breached the building at 2:13 p.m. Like the
               other locations inside the Capitol, law enforcement began forcing rioters out of the
               Senate wing door after 3:00 p.m. By 3:40 p.m., law enforcement had successfully pushed
               many of the rioters out of the door and onto the upper West Plaza.321 However, officers were unable to close the doors because some rioters remained in
               the doorway and attempted to re-enter the building. At 4:23 p.m., a combination of
               USCP and MPD officers forced these people out of the doorway and successfully secured
               the door.322 
            After clearing the inside of the Capitol, law enforcement officers proceeded to sweep
               the perimeter adjacent to the building, starting with the upper West Plaza. After
               pushing the last rioter out of the Senate wing door, officers started to clear the
               upper West Plaza, which is located just outside this same doorway. Law enforcement
               officers in riot gear formed a line and marshalled the crowd north from the upper
               West Plaza. By 4:31 p.m., 8 minutes after closing the Senate wing door, rioters were
               cleared from the upper West Plaza.323 
            Many of these same officers started to secure the north side of the Capitol as they
               pushed rioters from the upper West Plaza towards the East Plaza. By approximately
               4:32 p.m., law enforcement officers walked out of the North Doors, forming additional
               lines to push rioters eastward. As discussed earlier, the North Doors had been the
               location of violent fighting throughout much of the afternoon. By 4:46 p.m., law enforcement
               had successfully pushed the rioters from the north side of the Capitol to the East
               Plaza.324 
            Law enforcement cleared the East Plaza next. By 4:59 p.m., officers had swept all
               the remaining rioters from the east stairs of the Capitol.325 At this point, the mob that had overrun the upper West Plaza, the north side of the
               Capitol, and the East Plaza had been moved off the grounds adjacent to the Capitol.
               
            The last areas of the Capitol grounds to get cleared were the tunnel and the lower
               West Plaza. Thousands of rioters had packed into the West Plaza just after the initial
               invasion, led by the Proud Boys and their associates. The tunnel was the location
               of the days most violent fighting and the conflict extended until late in the day.
            After 5:00 p.m., it appears that law enforcement directed their attention to clearing
               the lower West Plaza, including the tunnel. At 5:04 p.m., police officers in the tunnel
               shot smoke bombs to get the remaining rioters to back away from the doors.326 By 5:05 p.m., the rioters had all retreated and the police officers inside the tunnel
               moved out and started clearing out the area.327 
            At 5:13 p.m., on the opposite side of the lower West Plaza, officers pushed the mob
               down the scaffold stairs and to the lower West Plaza.328 These are the same stairs that rioters, led by the Proud Boys and other extremists,
               had previously climbed before reaching the Senate wing door.
            
                  Police officers form line to push rioters away from the Capitol building.
                  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
               
            
            Once the rioters from the tunnel and the scaffold were all situated on the lower West
               Plaza, officers formed another line and started walking the mob back towards the grasswhich
               was away from the actual Capitol building. The line appears to have been fully formed
               at 5:19 p.m., and the officers started their sweep at 5:30 p.m.329 By 5:37 p.m., police officers pushed rioters back to the grassy area away from the
               Capitol. It was at this time that no rioters appeared to be in or around the Capitol
               building.330 At 6:56 p.m., a little more than an hour after the Capitol grounds were cleared,
               Vice President Pence returned to the Capitol from the loading dock.331 Vice President Pence walked up the stairs in the basement of the Capitol to his office
               in the Senate at 7:00 p.m.332
            
                  Vice President Pence and Speaker Pelosi preside over the joint session of Congress.
                  Photo by Erin SchaffPool/Getty Images
               
            
            Shortly after 8:00 p.m., the joint session of Congress resumed, with Vice President
               Pence saying: Lets get back to work.333 At 3:32 a.m., the Congress completed the counting of the votes and certified the
               election of Joseph R. Biden, Jr. as the 46th President of the United States. 
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Enrique Tarrio (@NobleLead), Parler, Jan. 6, 2021 11:16 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/ryanjreilly/status/1533921251743391745 (Ryan J. Reilly (@ryanjreilly), Twitter, June 6, 2022 5:18 p.m. ET (retweeting the
                  Premonition video)).
               2.  Third Superseding Indictment at 22, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380.
               3.  Third Superseding Indictment at 22, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380.
               4.  Leader of Proud Boys and Four Other Members Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious
                  Conspiracy and Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice,
                  (June 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-proud-boys-and-four-other-members-indicted-federal-court-seditious-conspiracy-and.
               5.  Leader of Proud Boys and Four Other Members Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious
                  Conspiracy and Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice,
                  (June 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-proud-boys-and-four-other-members-indicted-federal-court-seditious-conspiracy-and.
               6.  Leader of Proud Boys and Four Other Members Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious
                  Conspiracy and Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice,
                  (June 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-proud-boys-and-four-other-members-indicted-federal-court-seditious-conspiracy-and.
               7.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210106_Sony_FS5_Clip0065_1,
                  at 0:04 and 1:14 (Jacob Chansley being interviewed the morning of the 6th). 
               8.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210106_Sony_FS5_Clip0067_1,
                  at 11:43 (an unnamed woman being interviewed the morning of the 6th). 
               9.  Trial Transcript at 4542 and Trial Exhibit No. 6370, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022). 
               10.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478, p. 1 (event
                  summary of January 6th rally).
               11.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 8788; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview
                  of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1213.
               12.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1213.
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 1112. 
               14.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000086772, (Coordinated
                  Response to a Request for Information from the Select Committee, Nov. 18, 2021).
               15.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 (Event summary
                  of January 6th rally).
               16.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 (Event summary
                  of January 6th rally).
               17.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Production), DOI_46003146_00005053,
                  (general arrest report at the Washington Monument on the morning of January 6th).
               18.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Production), DOI_46003146_00005053,
                  (general arrest report at the Washington Monument on the morning of January 6th).
               19.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Production), DOI_46003146_00005053,
                  (general arrest report at the Washington Monument on the morning of January 6th).
               20.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of National Parks Service Staff, (Oct. 2728, 2021), p. 6.
               21.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of National Parks Service Staff, (Oct. 2728, 2021), p. 6.
               22.  Tom Jackman, Rachel Weiner, and Spencer S. Hsu, Evidence of Firearms in Jan. 6 Crowd Grows as Arrests and Trials Mount, Washington Post, (July 8, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/07/08/jan6-defendants-guns/.
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 (event summary
                  of Jan 6 rally).
               24.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), MPD 7378 (District
                  of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, Transcript of Radio Calls, January 6,
                  2021); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), CTRL0000070375,
                  at 3:40 (District of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, audio file of radio
                  traffic from Jan. 6, 2021, from 12:0013:00).
               25.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Colon, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Apr. 27, 2022), ECF 143. 
               26.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Colon, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Apr. 27, 2022), ECF 143.
               27.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 2123, United States v. Kuehne, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1366446/download.
               28.  See Spencer S. Hsu and Tom Jackman, First Jan. 6 Defendant Convicted at Trial Receives
                  Longest Sentence of 7 Years, Washington Post, (Aug. 1, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/08/01/reffitt-sentence-jan6/. 
               29.  Statement of Facts at 3, 5, United States v. Bargar, No. 1:22-mj-169, (D.D.C. July 29, 2022), ECF No. 1-1. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (District of Columbia Production, Axon Body 3 X6039BLAL,
                  at 14:30:03 (MPD body camera footage).
               30.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Bargar, No. 1:22-mj-169, (D.D.C. July 29, 2022), ECF No. 1-1.
               31.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Bargar, No. 1:22-mj-169, (D.D.C. July 29, 2022), ECF No. 1-1.
               32.  Statement of Offense at 3, United States v. Mazza, No. 1:21-cr-736, (D.D.C. June 17, 2022), ECF No. 25.
               33.  Statement of Offense at 3-4, United States v. Mazza, No. 1:21-cr-736, (D.D.C. June 17, 2022), ECF No. 25; Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Mazza, No. 1:21-cr-736, (D.D.C. Nov. 12, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               34.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 910, United States v. Mazza, No. 1:21-cr-736 (D.D.C. Sept. 23, 2022), ECF No. 30. 
               35.  For example, on November 13, 2020, Mazza (@MarkNunzios64) tweeted at President Trump:
                  Can you unseal obamas birth certificate and college transcripts? On Facebook, Mazza
                  shared a Q drop titled The Armor of God, a 9/11 Truther video, and multiple posts
                  dedicated to lies about the 2020 Presidential election. Screenshots on file with the
                  Select Committee. 
               36.  Hannah Rabinowitz and Holmes Lybrand, Armed US Capitol Rioter Tells Investigators
                  if He Had Found Pelosi, Youd be Here for Another Reason, CNN, (Nov. 23, 2021),
                  available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/11/22/politics/loaded-firearm-january-6-charged-mark-mazza/index.html.
               37.  Governments Memorandum in Aid of Sentencing at 3, United States v. Coffman, No. 1:21-cr-4, (Mar. 2, 2022), ECF 28.
               38.  Governments Memorandum in Aid of Sentencing at 3, United States v. Coffman, No. 1:21-cr-4, (Mar. 2, 2022), ECF 28.
               39.  Governments Memorandum in Aid of Sentencing at 4, United States v. Coffman, No. 1:21-cr-4, (Mar. 2, 2022), ECF 28.
               40.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeffrey Lawrence Morelock, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 81. 
               41.  Trial Exhibit 1.S.159.524, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15, (D.D.C Oct. 4, 2022); Trial Transcript at 10502-08, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2022).
               42.  Trial Transcript at 4109, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15, (D.D.C. Oct. 18, 2022).
               43.  Trial Transcript at 4106-08, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 18, 2022).
               44.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion to Revoke Magistrate Judges Detention
                  Order at 4, United States v. Miller, No. 1:21-cr-119, (D.D.C. Mar. 29, 2021), ECF No. 16. 
               45.  Statement of Facts at 2, 9, United States v. Miller, No. 1:21-cr-119 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), ECF No. 1-1. 
               46.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion to Modify Release Conditions at 3,
                  United States v. Harkrider, No. 1:21-cr-117, (D.D.C. July 8, 2021), ECF No. 40.
               47.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion to Modify Release Conditions at 3,
                  United States v. Harkrider, No. 1:21-cr-117, (D.D.C. July 8, 2021), ECF No. 40.
               48.  Dylan Stableford, New Video Shows Alleged Jan. 6 Capitol Rioters Threatening Pence,
                  Yahoo! News (Feb. 7, 2022), available at https://news.yahoo.com/new-video-jan-6-capitol-riot-pence-threat-drag-through-streets-195249884.html.
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Barber, (Mar. 16, 2022), p. 41. 
               50.  Statement of Facts at 34, United States v. Foy, No. 1:21-cr-108 (D.D.C. Jan. 20, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               51.  Statement of Facts at 34, United States v. Foy, No. 1:21-cr-108 (D.D.C. Jan. 20, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Governments Opposition to
                  Defendants Emergency Bond Review Motion at 5 n.3, United States v. Foy, No. 1:21-cr-108 (D.D.C. Mar. 12, 2021), ECF No. 11. 
               52.  Statement of Facts at 24, United States v. Webster, No. 1:21-cr-208 (D.D.C. Feb. 19, 2021), ECF No. 1-1. See also Holmes Lybrand, Former NYPD Officer Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Assaulting
                  a Police Officer on January 6, CNN (Sept. 1, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/09/01/politics/nypd-officer-january-6-sentencing/index.html.
               53.  January 6th Committee, Loudermilk Footage, YouTube, June 5, 2022, available at
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G9RNJ1tx4zw.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 12325.
               55.  First Superseding Indictment at 3, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 26; Auburn, Washington Member of
                  Proud Boys Charged with Obstructing an Official Proceeding, Other Charges Related
                  to the Jan. 6 Riots, Department of Justice, (Feb. 3, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdwa/pr/auburn-washington-member-proud-boys-charged-obstructing-official-proceeding-other.
               56.  Third Superseding Indictment at 16, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 21-cr-175 (TJK) (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1510971/download; Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Finley, No. 1:21-cr-526 (D.D.C. March 8, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1492396/download.
               57.  Auburn, Washington Member of Proud Boys Charged with Obstructing an Official Proceeding,
                  Other Charges Related to the Jan. 6 Riots, Department of Justice, (Feb. 3, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdwa/pr/auburn-washington-member-proud-boys-charged-obstructing-official-proceeding-other.
               58.  Auburn, Washington Member of Proud Boys Charged with Obstructing an Official Proceeding,
                  Other Charges Related to the Jan. 6 Riots, Department of Justice, (Feb. 3, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdwa/pr/auburn-washington-member-proud-boys-charged-obstructing-official-proceeding-other.
               59.  Auburn, Washington Member of Proud Boys Charged with Obstructing an Official Proceeding,
                  Other Charges Related to the Jan. 6 Riots, Department of Justice, (Feb. 3, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdwa/pr/auburn-washington-member-proud-boys-charged-obstructing-official-proceeding-other.
               60.  Third Superseding Indictment at 16, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1510971/download. 
               61.  See War Room - 2019-AUG 09, Friday - Joe Biggs and Owen Shroyer Talk Internet Censorship
                  and Democrat Party Terrorism, Spreaker.com, (Aug. 9, 2019), available at https://www.spreaker.com/user/realalexjones/08-09-19-warroom; Alexandra Garrett, Joe Biggs, Proud Boys Leader and Former Infowars Staffer, Arrested
                  Over Capitol Riot, Newsweek, (Jan. 20, 2021), available at https://www.newsweek.com/joe-biggs-proud-boys-leader-former-infowars-staffer-arrested-over-capitol-riot-1563181. 
               62.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint at 4, United States v. Biggs, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1357251/download.
               63.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint at 4, United States v. Biggs, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1357251/download.
               64.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint at 4, United States v. Biggs, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1357251/download.
               65.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint at 4, United States v. Biggs, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1357251/download.
               66.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Finley, No. 1:21-cr-526 (D.D.C. Apr. 6, 2022), ECF No. 38, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1492396/download; First Superseding Indictment at 3, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 26, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1377586/download.
               67.  First Superseding Indictment at 3, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 26, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1377586/download.
               68.  First Superseding Indictment at 89, 12, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 26, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1377586/download. 
               69.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera U.S. Capitol Police Camera 9004.
               70.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 3187.
               71.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1081_1_1.mov,
                  at 0:14; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 13940.
               72.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 138.
               73.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 13031.
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 134; Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Nick Quested Production), Video file M_DC_20210106_Sony_GC280A_0486.mov.
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 132, 143.
               76.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 946.
               77.  Peace Monument, Architect of the Capitol, available at https://www.aoc.gov/explore-capitol-campus/art/peace-monument. 
               78.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 946, 3187. 
               79.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210106_Sony_GC280A_0498.mov,
                  at 0:000:30.
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Caroline Elizabeth Edwards, (Apr. 18, 2022), pp. 3338; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210106_Sony_GC280A_0498
                  2022-05-15 15.00.38 at 1:15.  
               81.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1116_1.mov.
               82.  Alan Feuer, Dispute over Claim that Proud Boys Leader Urged Attack at Capitol,
                  New York Times, (Oct. 7, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/10/07/us/politics/proud-boys-capitol-riot.html.
               83.  Alan Feuer, Dispute over Claim that Proud Boys Leader Urged Attack at Capitol,
                  New York Times, (Oct. 7, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/10/07/us/politics/proud-boys-capitol-riot.html.
               84.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 946. 
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Caroline Elizabeth Edwards, (Apr. 18, 2022), pp. 4142. 
               86.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 945, 946, and 3187; Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Nick
                  Quested Production), Video files Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1127_1.mov, Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1127
                  2_1.mov; Elijah Schaffer (@ElijahSchaffer), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:46 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/ElijahSchaffer/status/1346966514990149639. 
               87.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Caroline Elizabeth Edwards, (Apr. 18, 2022), pp. 44; Video
                  files Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1127_1.mov, Iphone_Nick_DC_20210106_IMG_1127 2_1.mov;
                  Elijah Schaffer (@ElijahSchaffer), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:46 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/ElijahSchaffer/status/1346966514990149639.
               88.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 68, United States v. Jackman, No. 1:21-cr-378 (D.D.C. Mar. 26, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               89.  Statement of Facts at 12, United States v. Pepe, No. 1:21-cr-52 (D.D.C. Jan. 11, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               90.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 7, United States v. Jackman, No. 1:21-cr-378 (D.D.C. Mar. 26, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               91.  Statement of Offense at 5, United States v. Finley, No. 1:21-cr-526 (D.D.C. Apr. 6, 2022), ECF No. 38.
               92.  Statement of Offense at 25,United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5.
               93.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 908.  
               94.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944.
               95.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944; Trial Exhibit 1515.1, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 18, 2022); Trial Exhibit 6757, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 1, 2022) (showing timelapse of security footage outside
                  the Capitol).
               96.  Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6.
               97.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Alex Holder Production), Video file 45DAY32CAMB0059.mov,
                  at 2:11 (using audio track 4 to hear the statement clearly from someone off camera).
               98.  Tennessee Man Pleads Guilty to Felony Charges for Actions During Jan. 6 Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 30, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/tennessee-man-pleads-guilty-felony-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               99.  Tennessee Man Pleads Guilty to Felony Charges for Actions During Jan. 6 Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 30, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/tennessee-man-pleads-guilty-felony-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               100.  Two Men Sentenced to 44 Months in Prison for Assaulting Law Enforcement Officers
                  During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (July 15, 2022), available at
                  https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/two-men-sentenced-prison-assaulting-law-enforcement-officers-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               101.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Mattice, No. 1:21-cr-657 (D.D.C. Apr. 22, 2022), ECF No. 44. 
               102.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion for Release from Pretrial Detention
                  at 1011, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2021), ECF No. 61; Tom Dreisbach (@TomDreisbach),
                  Twitter, Feb. 4, 2022, 7:40 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/TomDreisbach/status/1489763508459687937?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1489763508459687937%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&amp;ref_url=; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Public Hearing, (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:110:15:00, https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851; Hearing on Motion to Modify Conditions of Release, Exhibit 07 at 7:438:00, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Dec. 20, 2021). Nichols had made similarly violent statements
                  since the November 2020 election, with increasing references to fighting on January
                  6th following President Trumps December 19th tweet. See Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion for Release from Pretrial Detention
                  at 4-8, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2021), ECF No. 61 (documenting the many communications
                  Nichols had with his codefendant planning for violence).
               103.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion for Release from Pretrial Detention
                  at 1011, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2021), ECF No. 61; Tom Dreisbach (@TomDreisbach),
                  Twitter, Feb. 4, 2022, 7:40 p.m. ET, available at: https://twitter.com/TomDreisbach/status/1489763508459687937?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1489763508459687937%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&amp;ref_url=; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Public Hearing, (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:110:15:00, https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851; Hearing on Motion to Modify Conditions of Release, Exhibit 07 at 7:438:00, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Dec. 20, 2021).
               104.  On the Media, Jessica Watkins on Stop The Steal J6 Zello Channel (Unedited),
                  SoundCloud, at 4:004:12, Mar. 8, 2021, available at https://soundcloud.com/user-403747081/jessica-watkins-on-stop-the-steal-j6-zello-channel-unedited.
               105.  On the Media, Jessica Watkins on Stop The Steal J6 Zello Channel (Unedited),
                  SoundCloud, at 5:305:34, Mar. 8, 2021, available at https://soundcloud.com/user-403747081/jessica-watkins-on-stop-the-steal-j6-zello-channel-unedited.
               106.  Statement of Facts at 13, United States v. Hazard, No. 1:22-cr-70 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Joy Sharon Yi and Kate Woodsome,
                  How the Capitol Attack Unfolded, from Inside Trumps Rally to the Riot | Opinion,
                  The Washington Post, at 1:321:42, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/opinions/how-the-capitol-attack-unfolded-from-inside-trumps-rally-to-the-riot-opinion/2021/01/12/a7146251-b076-426e-a2e3-8b503692c89d_video.html. 
               107.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000474 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Alex Jones text message to Caroline Wren).
               108.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000474 (Jan. 6, 2021,
                  Alex Jones text message to Caroline Wren).
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Alexander Jones, (Jan. 24, 2022), Exhibit 13 at 0:29 (excerpt from The
                  Alex Jones Show on Jan. 7, 2022). 
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), pp. 26061.
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), pp. 26061; See generally The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 37:00, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580. 
               112.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Alexander Jones, (Jan. 24, 2022), Ex. 13 at 0:29 (Excerpt from The Alex
                  Jones Show on Jan. 7, 2022); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000475
                  (Jan. 6, 2021, Alex Jones text message to Caroline Wren); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000484 (Jan. 5, 2021, Tim Enlow text message to Caroline
                  Wren).
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), p. 244.
               114.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), p. 244.
               115.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), p. 244.
               116.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 37:00, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580.
               117.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 37:44, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580.
               118.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 37:26, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580.
               119.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 37:58, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580.
               120.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 38:00, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580.
               121.  The Alex Jones Show, Humanity is Carrying Out its Own Great Reset Against Planets
                  Corrupt Elite - FULL SHOW 1/24/22, Banned.Video, at 38:16, Jan. 24, 2022, available
                  at https://banned.video/watch?id=61ef3e9d186875155e97ece8&amp;list=5d81058ce2ea200013c01580 .
               122.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Matthew Walter, (Mar. 9, 2022), p. 78.
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Matthew Walter, (Mar. 9, 2022), p. 75.
               124.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Google Voice Production, Feb. 25, 2022).
               125.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production, Nov. 19, 2021).
               126.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Nov. 24, 2021).
               127.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Alexander Jones, (Jan. 24, 2022), Exhibit 12 at 0:20. 
               128.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=HS34fpbzqg2b. 
               129.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=Qo3hom0Qb1at.
               130.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=QgPXUnbdhx3q.
               131.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=QgPXUnbdhx3q.
               132.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=QgPXUnbdhx3q.
               133.  Jan. 6th Protest and Save America March, Raw BodyCam: Watch As Alex Jones Works
                  With Capitol Police To Try And Quell The Riot, Banned.Video, at 8:45, Jan. 12, 2021,
                  available at https://banned.video/watch?id=5ffe25bc0d763c3dca0c4da1.
               134.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=a8lp9oooOT3m.
               135.  Jan. 6th Protest and Save America March, Raw BodyCam: Watch as Alex Jones Works
                  with Capitol Police To Try And Quell The Riot, Banned.Video, at 15:10, Jan. 12, 2021,
                  available at https://Banned.Video/watch?id=5ffe25bc0d763c3dca0c4da1.
               136.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), MPD 125MPD 126 (District
                  of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, Transcript of Radio Calls, January 6,
                  2021).
               137.  Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 4, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-32 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10. 
               138.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 45, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10. 
               139.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 45, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10.
               140.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 5, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10.
               141.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 5, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10. 
               142.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 5, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10.
               143.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 6, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10.
               144.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 12, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-00032 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10. 
               145.  See Governments Memorandum in Support of Pretrial Detention of Defendant Guy Wesley
                  Reffitt at 4, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-32 (D.D.C. Mar. 13, 2021), ECF No. 10.
               146.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum, United States v. Reffitt, No. 1:21-cr-32 (D.D.C. July 15, 2022), ECF No. 158.
               147.  See Spencer S. Hsu and Tom Jackman, First Jan. 6 Defendant Convicted at Trial Receives
                  Longest Sentence of 7 Years, Washington Post, (Aug. 1, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/08/01/reffitt-sentence-jan6/. 
               148.  See Statement of Facts at  14, 20, United States v. Scott, No. 1:21-mj-411 (D.D.C. April 29, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1395876/download. 
               149.  See Statement of Facts at  16, United States v. Scott, No. 1:21-mj-411 (D.D.C. April 29, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1395876/download. 
               150.  Statement of Facts at 9, United States v. Worrell, No. 1:21-mj-296 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1379556/download.
               151.  Statement of Facts at 1011, United States v. Worrell, No. 1:21-mj-296 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1379556/download.
               152.  Statement of Offense at  9, United States v. Jackson, No. 1:21-cr-484 (D.D.C. Nov. 22, 2021), ECF No. 19, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1452291/download. 
               153.  Statement of Offense at  1, 25, United States v. Greene, No. 1:21-cr-52-33 (D.D.C. Dec. 22, 2021), ECF No. 105, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1458266/download.
               154.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=zOZ8CgfNU1SY. 
               155.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Kelley, No. 1:22-cr-222 (D.D.C. June 8, 2022), ECF No. 1. 
               156.  Statement of Facts at 6, United States v. Kelley, No. 1:22-cr-222 (D.D.C. June 8, 2022), ECF No. 1. 
               157.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ryan Kelley, (Apr. 21, 2022), pp. 7, 7071, 7980, and Exhibit 15. 
               158.  Arrest Warrant at 1, United States v. Kelley, No. 1:22-cr-222 (D.D.C. June 9, 2022), ECF No. 5.
               159.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 102; Third Superseding Indictment at 21, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380 (noting that Dominic Pezzola
                  used [a] riot shield . . . to break a window of the Capitol at 2:13 p.m. and that [t]he first members of
                  the mob entered the Capitol through this broken window); 167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily
                  ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf.
               160.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 689; Third Superseding Indictment at 21, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380 (noting that Dominic Pezzola
                  used [a] riot shield . . . to break a window of the Capitol at 2:13 p.m. and that [t]he first members of
                  the mob entered the Capitol through this broken window.); 167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily
                  ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf.
               161.  Third Superseding Indictment at 21, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380 (noting that Dominic Pezzola
                  used [a] riot shield . . . to break a window of the Capitol at 2:13 p.m. and that [t]he first members of
                  the mob entered the Capitol through this broken window); 167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily
                  ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf. See also Ashley Parker, Carol D. Leonnig, Paul Kane, and Emma Brown, How the Rioters Who Stormed
                  the Capitol Came Dangerously Close to Pence, Washington Post, (Jan. 15, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/pence-rioters-capitol-attack/2021/01/15/ab62e434-567c-11eb-a08b-f1381ef3d207_story.html; Kat Lonsdorf, Courtney Dorning, Amy Isackson, Mary Louise Kelly, and Aeilsa Chang,
                  A Timeline of How The Jan. 6 Attack UnfoldedIncluding Who Said What and When, NPR, (June 9, 2022), available at https://www.npr.org/2022/01/05/1069977469/a-timeline-of-how-the-jan-6-attack-unfolded-including-who-said-what-and-when. 
               162.  Peter Manseau, His Pastors Tried to Steer Him Away from Social Media Rage. He Stormed
                  the Capitol Anyway, Washington Post, (Feb. 19, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/religion/2021/02/19/michael-sparks-capitol-siege-jan-6-christian/. 
               163.  Statement of Facts at 9, United States v. Sparks, No. 1:21-cr-87 (D.D.C. Jan. 19, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               164.  Complaint and Affidavit at 910, United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. Jan. 16, 2021), ECF No. 1. As an example of his conspiracy
                  beliefs, Gieswein claimed that American politicians have completely destroyed our
                  country and sold them to the Rothschilds and Rockefellers. This is a standard anti-Semitic
                  trope. See Complaint and Affidavit at 11, United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. Jan. 16, 2021), ECF No. 1. Gieswein also denied that he was
                  a Three Percenter as of January 6, 2021, even though he affiliated with an apparent
                  Three Percenter group at previous times. See Mr. Giesweins Motion for Hearing &amp; Revocation of Detention Order at 23, 1819, 25,
                  United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ECF No. 18. When the FBI arrested Gieswein,
                  the criminal complaint noted that he appears to be affiliated with the radical militia
                  group known as the Three Percenters. Criminal Complaint at 5, United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. Jan. 16, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1360831/download. See also Adam Rawnsley (@arawnsley), Twitter, Jan. 17, 2021 9:13 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/arawnsley/status/1350989535954530315 (highlighting photos of Gieswein flashing a Three Percenter symbol). 
               165.  Statement of Facts at 12, United States v. Jensen, No. 1:21-cr-6 (D.D.C. Jan. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               166.  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Jensen, No. 1:21-cr-6 (D.D.C. Jan. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               167.  Arizona Man Sentenced to 41 Months in Prison On Felony Charge in Jan. 6 Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/arizona-man-sentenced-41-months-prison-felony-charge-jan-6-capitol-breach. 
               168.  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Seefried, No. 1:21-mj-46 (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1354306/download. 
               169.  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Seefried, No. 1:21-mj-46 (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1354306/download; Maria Cramer, Confederate Flag an Unnerving Sight in the Capitol, New York Times, (Jan. 9, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/09/us/politics/confederate-flag-capitol.html.
               170.  Statement of Facts at 2, 5, United States v. Seefried, No. 1:21-mj-46 (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1354306/download.   
               171.  Delaware Man Sentenced to 24 Months in Prison for Actions Related to Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Oct. 24, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/delaware-man-sentenced-24-months-prison-actions-related-capitol-breach.  
               172.  Virginia Man Arrested on Felony and Misdemeanor Charges for Actions During Jan.
                  6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 20, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/virginia-man-arrested-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach; Statement of Facts at 44, United States v. Brody, et al., No. 1:22-mj-203 (D.D.C. Sep. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1536736/download.  
               173.  Virginia Man Arrested on Felony and Misdemeanor Charges for Actions During Jan.
                  6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 20, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/virginia-man-arrested-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.  
               174.  Statement of Facts at 44, United States v. Brody, et al., No. 1:22-mj-203 (D.D.C. Sep. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1536736/download.
               175.  Statement of Facts at 44, United States v. Brody, et al., No. 1:22-mj-203 (D.D.C. Sep. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1536736/download.  
               176.  Neil Vigdor and Alan Feuer, A Jan. 6 Defendant Coordinated Volunteers to Help Youngkins
                  Campaign, New York Times, (Oct. 6, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/06/us/politics/joseph-brody-jan-6-youngkin.html. 
               177.  Statement of Facts at 43, United States v.  Brody, et al., No. 1:22-mj-203 (D.D.C. Sept. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1536736/download.
               178.  Virginia Man Arrested on Felony and Misdemeanor Charges for Actions During Jan.
                  6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 20, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/virginia-man-arrested-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               179.  Virginia Man Arrested on Felony and Misdemeanor Charges for Actions During Jan.
                  6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Sep. 20, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/virginia-man-arrested-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               180.  Virginia Man Arrested on Felony and Misdemeanor Charges for Actions During Jan.
                  6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice (Sep. 20, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/virginia-man-arrested-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach; Statement of Facts at 4043, United States v. Brody, et al., No. 1:22-mj-203 (D.D.C. Sep. 12, 2022), available a: https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1536736/download. 
               181.  Statement of Facts at 23, 67, United States v. Williams, No. 1:21-cr-618 (D.D.C. Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1357051/download. A jury found Williams guilty of certain felony and misdemeanor charges, but could
                  not reach a verdict on other charges, including the aiding and abetting charge. See Pennsylvania Woman Found Guilty of Felony and Misdemeanor Charges Related to Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Nov. 21, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/pennsylvania-woman-found-guilty-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-related-capitol-breach.
               182.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 12, United States v. Hale-Cusanelli, No. 1:21-cr-37 (D.D.C. Sep. 15, 2022), ECF No. 110; New Jersey Man Sentenced to
                  48 Months in Prison for Actions Related to Capitol Breach, Department of Justice,
                  (Sep. 22, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/new-jersey-man-sentenced-prison-actions-related-capitol-breach; Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Hale-Cusanelli, No. 1:21-cr-37, (D.D.C. Jan. 15, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1356066/download. Pictures available online depict Hale-Cusanelli with a Hitler-style mustache. See Holmes Lybrand and Andrew Millman, U.S. Capitol Rioter and Alleged Nazi Sympathizer
                  Sentenced to 4 Years in Prison, CNN, (Sep. 22, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/09/22/politics/timothy-hale-cusanelli-stephen-ayres-capitol-riot/index.html.   
               183.  New Jersey Man Sentenced to 48 Months in Prison for Actions Related to Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Sep. 22, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/new-jersey-man-sentenced-prison-actions-related-capitol-breach. 
               184.  New Jersey Man Sentenced to 48 Months in Prison for Actions Related to Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Sep. 22, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/new-jersey-man-sentenced-prison-actions-related-capitol-breach. 
               185.  Statement of Offense at 3, United States v. Packer, No. 1:21-cr-103 (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1469561/download. 
               186.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 45, United States v. Packer, No. 1:21-cr-103, (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1353201/download. 
               187.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 102, 123.
               188.  Igor Bobic (@igorbobic), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:09 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/igorbobic/status/1346911809274478594; Spencer S. Hsu, Officer Describes How Jan. 6 Rioters Pursued Him through Capitol, Washington Post, (June 15, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/06/13/eugene-goodman-capitol-police-testimony/. 
               189.  Igor Bobic (@igorbobic), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:09 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/igorbobic/status/1346911809274478594; Peter Manseau, His Pastors Tried to Steer Him Away from Social Media Rage. He Stormed
                  the Capitol Anyway, Washington Post, (Feb. 19, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/religion/2021/02/19/michael-sparks-capitol-siege-jan-6-christian/; Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion for Hearing &amp; Revocation of Detention Order at 8, United States v. Robert Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (EGS) (D.D.C. June 15, 2021), available at https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs2191/f/Robert%20Gieswein%20Government%20Opposition%20to%20Motion%20for%20Hearing%20and%20Revocation%20of%20Detention%20Order.pdf.
               190.  Iowa Man Found Guilty of Felony and Misdemeanor Charges Related to Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Sep. 23, 2022), https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/iowa-man-found-guilty-felony-and-misdemeanor-charges-related-capitol-breach.
               191.  Peter Manseau, His Pastors Tried to Steer Him Away from Social Media Rage. He Stormed
                  the Capitol Anyway, Washington Post, (Feb. 19, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/religion/2021/02/19/michael-sparks-capitol-siege-jan-6-christian/.
               192.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 113, 114.
               193.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 213; Igor Bobic (@igorbobic), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:09
                  p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/igorbobic/status/1346911809274478594.
               194.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=s8XNlAskWNvi. 
               195.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=s8XNlAskWNvi.
               196.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=s8XNlAskWNvi.
               197.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 12, United States v. Rae, No. 1:21-cr-378 (D.D.C. Mar. 23, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               198.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Pruitt, No. 1:21-cr-23 (D.D.C. June 3,
                  2022), ECF No. 61, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1510401/download.
               199.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 113, 114.
               200.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 102.
               201.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 932, 933.
               202.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=a8lp9oooOT3m.
               203.  Jan. 6th Protest and Save America March, Raw BodyCam: Watch as Alex Jones Works
                  with Capitol Police to Try and Quell the Riot, Banned.Video, at 15:10, posted Jan.
                  12, 2021, available at https://banned.video/watch?id=5ffe25bc0d763c3dca0c4da1.
               204.  CNN Business, Alex Jones Influence on January 6, CNN, Feb. 26, 2022, available at https://www.cnn.com/videos/media/2022/02/26/alex-jones-influence-january-6-documentary.cnnbusiness.
               205.  Hunting Insurrectionists, East Main Columbus Doors 1:45-4:45pm - 56 video sync
                  - Jan 6th Capitol Attack Footage, YouTube, at 31:53, Mar. 12, 2021, available at
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1gODZvbhqs&amp;t=1901s.
               206.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Matthew Thomas Walter, (Mar. 9, 2022), p. 79.
               207.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Matthew Thomas Walter, (Mar. 9, 2022), p. 79.
               208.  Hunting Insurrectionists, East Main Columbus Doors 1:45-4:45pm - 56 video sync
                  - Jan 6th Capitol Attack Footage, YouTube, at 36:15, Mar. 12, 2021, available at
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1gODZvbhqs&amp;t=1901s.
               209.  CNN Business, Alex Jones Influence on January 6, CNN, at 2:202:28, Feb. 26, 2022,  available at https://www.cnn.com/videos/media/2022/02/26/alex-jones-influence-january-6-documentary.cnnbusiness.
               210.  Hunting Insurrectionists, East Main Columbus Doors 1:45-4:45pm - 56 video sync
                  - Jan 6th Capitol Attack Footage, YouTube, at 39:19, Mar. 12, 2021, available at
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1gODZvbhqs&amp;t=1901s.
               211.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ali Alexander, (Dec. 9, 2021), pp. 6466.
               212.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 7029, 7216.
               213.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7029.
               214.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 1619, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download.
               215.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 12, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download.
               216.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 12, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download.
               217.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 12, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download.
               218.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 1419, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download; Two Men Charged with Obstructing Law Enforcement During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Dec. 3, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/two-men-charged-obstructing-law-enforcement-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               219.  Complaint with Arrest Warrant at 2429, United States v. Loehrke, No. 1:21-mj-672 (D.D.C. Nov. 30, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1459171/download.
               220.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Brian Adams and Marc Carrion, (Apr. 20, 2022).
               221.  Two Men Charged with Obstructing Law Enforcement During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Dec. 3, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/two-men-charged-obstructing-law-enforcement-during-jan-6-capitol-breach.
               222.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7029.
               223.  See Chapter 6.
               224.  Trial Transcript at 4532:204534:9, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022). 
               225.  Trial Transcript at 4642:244643:6 and Trial Exhibit 6731, United States v. Rhodes
                  et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022).
               226.  Trial Transcript at 4643:224644:4 and Trial Exhibit 6731, United States v. Rhodes
                  et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022).
               227.  Trial Transcript at 4520:94521:5, 4744:204745:21, Trial Exhibits 1503, 6740, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022). 
               228.  Seventh Superseding Indictment at 2122, United States v. Crowl et al., No. 21-cr-28 (D.D.C. Jan. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1462476/download.
               229.  Seventh Superseding Indictment at 22, United States v. Crowl et al., No. 21-cr-28 (D.D.C. Jan. 12, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1462476/download.    
               230.  Trial Transcript at 4724:815 and Trial Exhibit 1500 at 13:0213:25, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022).
               231.  Trial Transcript at 4779:14790:3 and Trial Exhibit 1505, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022). 
               232.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7029; Leader of Alabama Chapter of Oath Keepers Pleads
                  Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy and Obstruction of Congress for Efforts to Stop Transfer
                  of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice, (Mar. 2, 2022),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-alabama-chapter-oath-keepers-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-and-obstruction#:~:text=Joshua%20James%2C%2034%2C%20of%20Arab,with%20the%20government's%20ongoing%20investigation; Statement of Offense at 8, United States v. James, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Mar. 2, 2022), ECF No. 60, available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1479551/download.
               233.  Trial Transcript at 4803:104804:23 and Trial Exhibit 1089.1, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022). 
               234.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 912.
               235.  Crypt, Architect of the Capitol, available at https://www.aoc.gov/explore-capitol-campus/buildings-grounds/capitol-building/crypt. 
               236.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 267.
               237.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 123, 124.
               238.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 123, 124. 
               239.  Watchers Guild, Rioters Fight with Police at Capitol Building - Washington D.C.
                  - JAN/6/2020, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U7DiLh2Pbl4; News2Share, January 6 United States Capitol Attack, YouTube, June 4, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9TshRdxXi9c.  
               240.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Gordon, No. 1:22-cr-343 (D.D.C. Oct. 28, 2022), ECF No. 26, available at http://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1547751/download.
               241.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Gordon, No. 1:22-cr-343 (D.D.C. Oct. 28, 2022), ECF No. 26, available at http://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1547751/download.
               242.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Gordon, No. 1:22-cr-343 (D.D.C. Oct. 28, 2022), ECF No. 26, available at http://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1547751/download.
               243.  Hunting Insurrectionists, West Terrace Tunnel - 3:50 - 4:21 pm - Jan 6th, YouTube,
                  Mar. 12, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yil1JemYMM0&amp;t=1405s. 
               244.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 102. 
               245.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file Inside Capitol.mov
                  at 23:0123:35.
               246.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 178, 402.
               247.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file Inside Capitol.mov
                  at 13:1015:47.
               248.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 178, 402.
               249.  Jake Tapper (@jaketapper), Twitter, Feb. 10, 2021 5:50 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/jaketapper/status/1359635955389509638 (screenshotting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m.
                  ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22usa+demands+the+truth%22).
               250.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 178, 402.
               251.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 178, 402.
               252.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Millard, (Apr. 18, 2022), p. 28.
               253.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of David Millard, (Apr. 18, 2022), p. 28.
               254.  Plea Agreement at 5, United States v. Pruitt, No. 1:21-cr-23 (D.D.C. June 3, 2022), ECF No. 61. 
               255.  Complaint at 3438, United States v. Chrestman, No. 1:21-cr-160 (D.D.C. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1366441/download; Ryan J. Reilly (@ryanjreilly), Twitter, Nov. 26, 2022 1:00 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/ryanjreilly/status/1596564571371749378 (showing video Proud Boy Nicholas DeCarlo filmed while inside the Capitol).
               256.  Complaint at 3438, United States v. Chrestman, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1366441/download.
               257.  Indictment at 5, 89, United States v. Kuehne et al., No. 1:21-cr-160 (D.D.C. Feb. 26, 2021), ECF No. 29.
               258.  Statement of Offense at 3, United States v. Colon, No. 1:21-cr-160 (D.D.C. Apr. 27, 2022), ECF No. 143.
               259.  Indictment at 5, 89, United States v. Kuehne et al., No. 1:21-cr-160 (D.D.C. Feb. 26, 2021), ECF No. 29.
               260.  Complaint at 36, United States v. Chrestman, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1366441/download; Ryan J. Reilly (@ryanjreilly), Twitter, Nov. 26, 2022 1:00 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/ryanjreilly/status/1596564571371749378 (showing video Proud Boy Nicholas DeCarlo filmed while inside the Capitol).
               261.  Complaint at 36, United States v. Chrestman, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1366441/download. 
               262.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Colon, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Apr. 27, 2022), ECF No. 143. 
               263.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Colon, No. 1:21-cr-160, (D.D.C. Apr. 27, 2022), ECF No. 143. 
               264.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 251.
               265.  Lena Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw During
                  the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=sbGOy4rN0ue4.
               266.  Statement of Offense at 1214, United States v. Chansley, No. 1:21-cr-3 (D.D.C. Sep. 3, 2021), ECF No. 70.
               267.  Statement of Offense at 15, United States v. Chansley, No. 1:21-cr-3 (D.D.C. Sep. 3, 2021), ECF No. 70.
               268.  Christian Secor, a young Groyper, sat in the Vice Presidents seat. See California Man Sentenced to 42 Months in Prison for Actions During Jan. 6 Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Oct. 19, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/california-man-sentenced-prison-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach; Complaint at 6, 1415, United States v. Secor, No. 1:21-mj-232 (D.D.C. Feb 13, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               269.  Other agitators, such as Vets 4 Trump founder Joshua Macias (who was with Stewart
                  Rhodes and Enrique Tarrio on January 5th), also attacked Vice President Pence outside
                  the Capitol. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Joshua Macias, (May 2, 2022), pp. 2728, and Exhibit 14; capitolhunters
                  (@capitolhunters), Twitter, May 27, 2021 8:36 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/capitolhunters/status/1398075750482337792 (video of Macias calling Vice President Pence a Benedict Arnold outside of the
                  Capitol on January 6th).  
               270.  Reagan Battalion (@ReaganBattalion), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021 5:03 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/ReaganBattalion/status/1347121703823044608.
               271.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944.
               272.  Sentencing Transcript at 19, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sep. 27, 2022), ECF No. 170.
               273.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 74.
               274.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 74.
               275.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 48, United States v. Head, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 159. 
               276.  Statement of Facts at 5, 2931, 39, United States v. Denney, No. 1:22-cr-70 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Status Coup News, UNBELIEVABLE
                  Footage | Trump Supporters Battle Cops Inside the Capitol, YouTube, at 24:09, Jan.
                  7, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cJOgGsC0G9U. 
               277.  Statement of Facts at 2, 67, United States v. Brown, No. 1:21-cr-178 (D.D.C. Aug. 16, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Storyful Viral, Scenes of
                  Chaos Captures Inside US Capitol as Crowd Challenges Police, YouTube, at 20:05, 21:03,
                  Jan. 7, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qc0U755-uiM. 
               278.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 2528, 55, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sep. 13, 2022), ECF No. 140; Status Coup News, UNBELIEVABLE
                  Footage | Trump Supporters Battle Cops Inside the Capitol, YouTube, at 9:459:56,
                  Jan. 7, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cJOgGsC0G9U. 
               279.  Statement of Facts for Stipulated Trial at 69, United States v. Morss, No. 1:21-cr-40 (D.D.C. Aug. 23, 2022), ECF No. 430; Torsten Ove, Former Army Ranger
                  Charged with Assaulting Cops during Capitol Riot Faces DC Bench Trial, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, (Aug. 17, 2022), available at: https://www.post-gazette.com/news/crime-courts/2022/08/17/robert-morss-pittsburgh-glenshaw-army-ranger-charged-assaulting-police-capitol-riot-insurrection-january-6-bench-trial/stories/202208170094. 
               280.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion to Set Bond and Conditions of Release
                  at 67, United States v. Schwartz, No. 1:21-cr-178 (D.D.C. June 15, 2021), ECF No. 26.
               281.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Head, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. May 6, 2022), ECF No. 124; Governments Sentencing Memorandum
                  at 14, 18, 25, United States v. Head, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 159; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (District of Columbia Production), Axon Body 3 No. X6039B9N0, at 15:1715:20 (MPD
                  body camera footage); Tennessee Man Sentenced to 90 Months in Prison for Assaulting
                  Law Enforcement Officer During Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Oct. 27, 2022),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/tennessee-man-sentenced-prison-assaulting-law-enforcement-officer-during-capitol-breach. 
               282.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 14, 18, 25, United States v. Head, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Oct. 19, 2022).
               283.  Statement of Facts at 3334, United States v. Denney, No. 1:22-cr-70 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1-1. 
               284.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 2, 3031, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sept. 13, 2022), ECF No. 140.
               285.  Statement of Facts at 411, United States v. Sibick, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Mar. 10, 2021), ECF No. 1-1 (noting that Sibick told the
                  FBI he was trying to help Officer Fanone while other rioters attempted to get the
                  officers gun).
               286.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), (Axon Body 3 No. X6039B9N0), at 15:18:5115:21:12 (MPD body camera footage); Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 27-28, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sept. 13, 2022), ECF No. 140. 
               287.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 3839, 4345, 7071, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               288.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 1718, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               289.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 118, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1 (quoting Rodriguez saying:
                  And I was alreadyTrump was already, likethis is 2015, and I was already into InfoWars and Alex Jones, and hes backing up
                  Trump. And Im like, all right, man. This is it. Im going tothis isIm going to fight for this. Im going to doI want to do this.).
               290.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 131, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               291.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 34, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               292.  Motion to Suppress by Daniel Rodriguez, Exhibit A at 34, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 25, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               293.  Indictment at 2, 57, United States v. Rodriguez et al., No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Nov. 19, 2021), ECF No. 65.
               294.  Indictment at 2, 57, United States v. Rodriguez et al., No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Nov. 19, 2021), ECF No. 65.
               295.  Indictment at 2, 57, United States v. Rodriguez et al., No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Nov. 19, 2021), ECF No. 65.
               296.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001532.0001 (Jan.
                  5, 2021, FBI Situational Information Report); see also Statement of Facts at 11, 39, United States v. Denney, No. 1:22-cr-70 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1-1 (noting that Denney, a Three Percenter,
                  posted similar messages about occupying Congress on Facebook).
               297.  See 167 Cong. Rec. S633-38 (daily ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf; Marshall Cohen and Avery Lotz, The January 6 Insurrection: Minute-by-Minute, CNN,
                  (July 29, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/07/10/politics/jan-6-us-capitol-riot-timeline/index.html.
               298.  United States Secret Service Radio Tango Frequency at 14:1414:25. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency. See also U.S. Capitol Police Camera 462.
               299.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 961.
               300.  United States Secret Service Radio Tango Frequency at 14:1414:25. Select Committee
                  staff reviewed recordings of this radio frequency. See also U.S. Capitol Police Camera 462.
               301.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7023.
               302.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 461.
               303.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 077.
               304.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 3062, 6059, 6146.
               305.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 269.
               306.  Select Committee staff analyzed thousands of hours of surveillance footage from the
                  United States Capitol. There is no camera that captured the evacuation because CSPAN
                  cameras focus on the dais (so they miss the activity on the floor), and there are
                  no CCTV cameras around the floor. The staff first identified Members appearing in
                  the basement of the Capitol at exactly 2:40 p.m. ET. Based on knowledge of the Capitol
                  and judging the distance traveled, staff have estimated that it took Members approximately
                  2 minutes from leaving the floor to getting to the basement, which puts the evacuation
                  at approximately 2:38 p.m. This time is consistent with informal contemporaneous accounts
                  provided by Members and law enforcement officers who were there. See U.S. Capitol Police Camera 0077.
               307.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 0077.
               308.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 360.
               309.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 360.
               310.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 360.
               311.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944.
               312.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 403.
               313.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 251.
               314.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 267.
               315.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 304.
               316.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 202, 303, 461, 462.
               317.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 202, 303, 461, 462.
               318.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 960.
               319.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 960. 
               320.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7029.
               321.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 102.
               322.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 102.
               323.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 926.
               324.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 927, 928, 929.
               325.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 933.
               326.  U.S. Capitol Police Cameras 074, 944.
               327.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 074.
               328.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 924.
               329.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944.
               330.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 944.
               331.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 7032.
               332.  U.S. Capitol Police Camera 011.
               333.  WATCH: Lets Get Back to Work, Pence Urges Senate, PBS, (Jan. 6, 2021), available
                  at https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/watch-lets-get-back-to-work-pence-urges-senate. 
