            5
            A COUP IN SEARCH OF A LEGAL THEORY
            On the morning of January 6, 2021, Vice President Michael R. Pence gathered his staff
               to pray. Vice President Pence and his closest advisors knew the day ahead would be
               a challenging one.1 They asked God for guidance and wisdom in the hours to come.2 No Republican had been more loyal to President Donald J. Trump throughout his turbulent
               presidency than Vice President Pence. The Vice President rarely, if ever, criticized
               his boss. But as January 6th approached, President Trump turned on his own Vice President.
               
            President Trump was desperate. As described in the previous chapters, the President
               was searching for a way to stay in power. He had lost the election to former Vice
               President Biden. He had run out of legal options to overturn the election weeks earlier,
               when his lawyers lost nearly every court challenge they filed. 
            The President pursued other means as well. President Trump and his lawyers tried to
               convince State and local officials to overturn the election, but they met resistance.
               Those same officials would not break the law or violate their oath to the Constitution.
               President Trump and his associates tried to convince State legislatures to replace
               the legitimate electors won by former Vice President Biden with Trump electors. The
               Trump Campaign even convened their own fake electors who submitted false electoral
               votes to Washington. But those efforts failed, too.
            President Trump also attempted to use the Department of Justice (DOJ) for his own
               corrupt political purposes. President Trump offered the job of Acting Attorney General
               to a loyalist. He wanted this same DOJ official, Jeffrey Clark, to send a letter to
               several States suggesting that they should certify the fake electors convened by the
               Trump Campaign. President Trumps effort to subvert the DOJ came to a head on January
               3rd, when the Departments senior personnel and lawyers in the White House Counsels
               Office threatened mass resignations if Clark was installed.
            At that point, theories about a role the Vice President could play at the joint session
               had been circulating in certain corners of the internet and among Trump-supporting
               attorneys.3 President Trump focused his attention on the man who had loyally served by his side
               for four years.
            On January 4, 2021, President Trump summoned Vice President Pence to a meeting in
               the Oval Office with John Eastman, a law professor representing President Trump in
               litigation challenging the election result. Eastman argued, on President Trumps behalf,
               that the Vice President could take matters into his own hands during the joint session
               on January 6th. Eastman offered Vice President Pence two options. First, the Vice
               President could unilaterally reject the certified electors from several States won
               by former Vice President Biden, thereby handing the presidency to President Trump.
               Or, according to Eastman, Vice President Pence could delay the joint session to give
               State legislatures the opportunity to certify new electors loyal to the President.
               Eastman admitted, in front of the president, that both options violated the Electoral
               Count Act of 1887, the statute that sets forth the process for counting and disputing
               electoral votes during the joint session.4 Eastman admitted as much in a subsequent conversation with the Vice Presidents staff
               as well.5
            Therefore, President Trump knew, or should have known, that this scheme was illegalin
               fact, it violated the Electoral Count Act and the U.S. Constitution. President Trump
               repeatedly demanded that Vice President Pence go through with it anyway.
            Vice President Pence rejected President Trumps demands many times on January 4th
               and in the days that followed.6 Vice President Pence correctly pointed out that he had no power to take any action
               other than counting the certified electoral votes. Americas founders could not possibly
               have contemplated a scenario in which the Vice President could unilaterally reject
               electoral votes and decide the outcome of a Presidential election. However, instead
               of backing down, President Trump ratcheted up the pressure even further, relentlessly
               harassing Vice President Pence both in public and in private.
            President Trump used his bully pulpit, at rallies and on Twitter, to lie to his supporters.
               President Trump told them that Vice President Pence had the power to deliver another
               4 years in the White House. It was not true. President Trumps campaign of coercion
               became so intense that Marc Short, Vice President Pences Chief of Staff, alerted
               the head of the Vice Presidents Secret Service detail to the impending danger. On
               January 5th, Short warned that as the disagreements between President Trump and
               Vice President Pence became more public, that the president would lash out in some
               way.7
             Indeed, President Trump did. And those around him recognized that his lashing out
               at the Vice President could have disastrous consequences. On the morning of January
               6th, an agent in the Secret Services intelligence division was alerted to online
               chatter regarding the VP being a dead man walking if he doesnt do the right thing.8 A few minutes later, another agent made a comment that turned out to be an ominous
               prediction: I saw several other alerts saying they will storm the [C]apitol if he
               [the Vice President] doesnt do the right thing etc.9
            During his speech at the Ellipse on January 6th, President Trump repeatedly pointed
               his finger at Vice President Pence. President Trump insisted that if Mike Pence does
               the right thing, we win the election.10 President Trump added: And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us, and
               if he doesnt, that will be a, a sad day for our country because youre sworn to uphold
               our Constitution.11
            President Trumps scheme required Vice President Pence to break his oath to the Constitution, not uphold it. By the time President Trump spoke at
               the Ellipse, he also knew that Vice President Pence had no intention of overturning
               the election.
            President Trump then sent a mob to the U.S. Capitol. He did so even after being informed
               by the Secret Service that people in the crowd possessed weapons. He wanted his supporters
               to intimidate Vice President Pence and any other Republican who refused his demands.
               The President told the crowd assembled before him to march down Pennsylvania Avenue,
               to our Republicans, the weak ones at the U.S. Capitol, to try and give them the
               kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country.12
            The mob overran the U.S. Capitol in short order. At 2:24 p.m., while the attack was
               well underway, President Trump tweeted:
            Mike Pence didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our
               Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of
               facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.
               USA demands the truth!13
            Again, the opposite was true. Vice President Pence showed courage on January 6th.
               The Vice President refused to be intimidated by President Trumps mob, even as chants
               of Hang Mike Pence! echoed throughout the halls of the U.S. Capitol and a makeshift
               gallows was constructed on the Capitol grounds.14
             It is no mystery why the mob turned on Vice President Pence. President Trump told
               his supporters that the election was stolen, and that Vice President Pence had the
               power, but lacked the courage, to fix it. None of this was true.
             President Trump and Vice President Pence have both reflected on the events of January
               6th in the months since then. Vice President Pence has described President Trumps
               demands as un-American.15 President Trump has since insisted that Vice President Pence could have overturned
               the Election!16 Asked about the calls to hang the Vice President, President Trump said it was common
               sense.17
            In early 2022, U.S. District Judge David Carter evaluated the Trump-Eastman scheme
               to pressure the Vice President. Judge Carter described it as a campaign to overturn
               a democratic election, an action unprecedented in American history.18 It was a coup in search of a legal theory, Judge Carter found, that likely violated
               at least two Federal laws.19 The Trump-Eastman scheme was not a feature of the U.S. Constitution, as President
               Trump told his supporters. Instead, it would have permanently ended the peaceful
               transition of power, undermining American democracy and the Constitution.20
            And it all began because President Trump refused to accept the result of the election,
               expressed through the votes of 81 million Americans.
            5.1 President Trump and His Allies Embark on a Desperate Gambit to Block Certification
               of the 2020 Presidential Election.
            The Intellectual Framework for the Theory that the Vice President Could Change the
               Outcome of the Election at the Joint Session Emerged from Discussions Among the Lawyers
               Working with the Trump Campaign After the 2020 Election. 
            When the electoral college met to cast votes for the certified winner in each State
               on December 14, 2020, any possibility of President Trump reversing his defeat came
               to an end. The contest was decided well before then, but December 14th marked what
               should have been the formal end of the Trump campaign. Former Vice President Biden
               had won the election and his victory was cemented by the States electoral votes.
               Instead of bowing to this reality, some pro-Trump lawyers had already begun scheming
               ways to deny the inevitable. Over the course of the post-election period, as their
               other plans each failed, the importance of January 6th and the need to pressure Vice
               President Pence increased. These same lawyers concluded that the Vice President could
               help President Trump subvert the election on January 6th, but they would need Vice
               President Pence to set aside history and the law to do so. Theyd need him to violate
               the Electoral Count Act of 1887 (the ECA). The ECA had governed the joint session
               for 130 years, but it was an inconvenient barrier for President Trumps plan to stay
               in office.
            Kenneth Chesebro Articulated a President of the Senate Strategy in Early December,
               When the Trump Campaign was Convening Alternate Electors in Key States President
               Trump Lost.
            On December 13, 2020, Kenneth Chesebro, a pro-Trump lawyer, sent a memo to Rudolph
               Giuliani, the Presidents lead outside counsel, upon request from Trump Campaign official
               Boris Epshteyn.21 Chesebro laid out a President of the Senate strategy, arguing that the President
               of the Senate (he, and he alone) is charged with making judgments about what to
               do if there are conflicting votes.22 Chesebro argued that when the joint session met on January 6th, the President of
               the Senate should not count Arizonas electoral college votes for former Vice President
               Biden, [b]ecause there are two slates of votes.23 Of course, there were not two legitimate slates of votes from Arizona. There were
               the official electors, certified by the State, and a group of fake electors convened
               by the Trump campaign.
            Chesebros memo set President Trumps pressure campaign on a course to target the
               Vice President on January 6.24 Judge Carter found that the draft memo pushed a strategy that knowingly violated
               the Electoral Count Act and is both intimately related to and clearly advanced the
               plan to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.25 That plan was also advanced by John Eastman.26
            On December 23, John Eastman Drafted the First of His Two January 6th Scenario Memos,
               Articulating the Argument that Under the Constitution the Vice President is the Ultimate
               Arbiter.  
            On December 23, 2020, Eastman wrote a two-page memo summarizing ways to ensure that
               President Trump is re-elected.27 Eastman suggested that Vice President Pence could refuse to count the electoral college
               votes from seven States: Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, Pennsylvania,
               and Wisconsin. According to Eastman, Vice President Pence could simply reject these
               States electoral college votes. At that point, President Trump would have 232 electoral
               college votes compared to former Vice President Bidens 222. This was sufficient,
               in Eastmans view, to guarantee President Trumps victory, because he would have a
               majority of the electoral college votes. Pence then gavels President Trump as re-elected,
               Eastman wrote.
            Eastman considered the possibility that Democrats in Congress would object, stating
               the plain truth that 270 electoral college votes are necessary to win. In that event,
               according to Eastman, the election could be sent to the House of Representatives.28 The Republican-majority of delegations in the House would then re-elect Trump as
               president. Eastman concluded: The main thing here is that Pence should do this without
               asking for permissioneither from a vote of the joint session or from the Court. .
               . . The fact is that the Constitution assigns this power to the Vice President as
               the ultimate arbiter. We should take all of our actions with that in mind.29 
            From the start, President Trump was looped in on Eastmans proposal. The same day
               Eastman started preparing the memo, he sent an email to President Trumps assistant
               Molly Michael, at 1:32 p.m.: Is the President available for a very quick call today
               at some point? Just want to update him on our overall strategic thinking.30 Only five minutes later, Eastman received a call from the White House switchboard;
               according to his phone records, the conversation lasted for almost 23 minutes.31
            Eastman Changed His Evaluation of the 12th Amendment, and the Role of the Vice President,
               After President Trump Lost the Election.
            In Eastmans theory, which was the foundation of President Trumps January 6th plot,
               the Vice President of the United States is the ultimate arbiter and could unilaterally
               decide the victor of the 2020 Presidential election.32 However, just before the 2020 presidential election, Eastman had acknowledged in
               writing that the Vice President had no such expansive power.
            In the course of a lengthy exchange of ideas and emails throughout the pre- and post-election
               period with an individual named Bruce Colbert, Eastman provided comments on a letter
               Colbert was drafting to President Trump.33 The draft letter purported to provide recommendations of crucial legal actions
               for the Trump Campaign to take to help secure your election victory as President
               of the United States.34 One of the draft letters recommendations was that the President of the Senate decides
               authoritatively what certificates from the states to open. In response, Eastman
               wrote on October 17, 2020, I dont agree with this and continued, [t]he 12th Amendment
               only says that the President of the Senate opens the ballots in the joint session
               and then, in the passive voice, that the votes shall then be counted. 3 USC  12 says
               merely that he is the presiding officer, and then it spells out specific procedures,
               presumptions, and default rules for which slates will be counted. Nowhere does it suggest that the President of the Senate gets to make the determination
                  on his own.  15 doesnt, either.35
            By the first week of December, Eastmans correspondence with this same individual
               illustrates that he was open to advocating for the very point he had rejected before
               the electionthat is, that the 12th Amendment confers dispositive authority on the
               President of the Senate to decide which slate to count.36  And on December 5, 2020, Eastman wrote to Colbert, I have spoken directly with
               folks at the top of the chain of command on this. They are now aware of the issues.37
            The emails also signaled another idea that Eastman would continue to repeat in the
               coming weeks: that the Vice President could act without getting permission from a
               court.  Specifically, he argued that they could take the position that the Vice Presidents
               authority was a non-justiciable political questionin other words, that Vice President
               Pence could just act, and no court would have jurisdiction to rule on the issue.38  As Eastmans emails later in the month make clear, he thought there was an important
               reason to keep this issue out of the courtsthey would rule that the theory was unlawful.
            Eastmans January 6 Scenario Clearly Required the Vice President to Violate the
               Electoral Count Act, the Federal Law Governing the Certification of Presidential Elections.
            There are other parts of Eastmans two-page December 23rd memo worthy of attention.
               Eastman wrote that Vice President Pence could recuse himself from presiding over the
               joint session of Congress on January 6th. In that event, the session would be overseen
               by the Senate President Pro Tempore, Senator Charles Grassley. Eastman was clearly arguing that Vice President Pence
               (or Senator Grassley) should violate the Electoral Count Act. When he gets to Arizona, he announces that he has multiple slates of electors,
               and so is going to defer decision on that until finishing the other States, Eastman
               wrote.39 This would be the first break with the procedure set out in the Act.40 This break with procedure that Eastmans memo was openly advocating for was in
               other words the Vice President breaking the law. When Chesebro read Eastmans memo,
               he commented favorably, declaring it [r]eally awesome.41
            At this point, Eastman continued, Congress would likely follow the process set forth
               in the Electoral Count Act, and the two houses [would] break into their separate
               chambers for debate.42 But Eastman advised we should not allow the Electoral Count Act constraint on debate
               to control and the Trump team should demand normal rules (which includes the filibuster).43 Eastman thought this would create a stalemate, giving the state legislatures more
               time to weigh in to formally support the alternate slate of electors, if they had
               not already done so.44 As discussed previously in this report, at the time he drafted this memoand throughout
               the post-election periodEastman, Giuliani, President Trump and others were simultaneously
               working to replace certified electors for former Vice President Biden in certain States.
               Eastman, Giuliani, and President Trump all pressured State legislators to name their
               own separate electors or to certify the campaigns fake electors.
            Eastmans Theory wasin the Words of President Trumps Senior White House and Campaign
               OfficialsInsane, Crazy, Nutty and it Would Never Practically Work. 
            Eric Herschmann, an attorney working for President Trump in the White House, met with
               Eastman to discuss his memo. Herschmann thought Eastmans plan was crazy. Herschmann
               summarized the conversation to the Select Committee:
            And I said to him, hold on a second, I want to understand what youre saying. Youre
               saying you believe the Vice President, acting as President of the Senate, can be the
               sole decisionmaker as to, under your theory, who becomes the next President of the
               United States? And he said, yes. And I said, are you out of your Fing mind, right?
               And that was pretty blunt. I said, youre completely crazy. Youre going to turn around
               and tell 78 plus million people in this country that your theory is, this is how youre
               going to invalidate their votes because you think the election was stolen? I said,
               theyre not going to tolerate that. I said, youre going to cause riots in the streets.
               And he said words to the effect of theres been violence in this history of our country
               to protect the democracy or to protect the [R]epublic.45
            As recounted by Herschmann, Eastman was shockingly unconcerned with the prospect of
               violence should Vice President Pence follow his and President Trumps recommended
               course.
            Herschmann asked a straightforward questionif the States wanted to recertify their
               electors, then why werent they doing it themselves? Why arent they already coming
               into session and saying, we want to change the [S]tates, and why do you need the VP
               to go down this path[?]46 Eastman had no response. In addition to being crazy, Herschmann didnt think there
               was any chance in the world that Eastmans plan could work.47
            Herschmann pressed Eastman further, asking if he had any precedent at all for the
               VP or anyone acting in the capacity as the President of the Senate declaring some
               statute invalid.48 Eastman replied no, but argued that these are unprecedented times.49 Herschmann was unimpressed, calling this a ridiculous answer.50
            White House Counsel Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone thought the Eastman plan was
               nutty.51 Trump Campaign official Jason Miller testified that the Campaigns General Counsel,
               Matt Morgan, and Deputy Campaign Manager, Justin Clark, thought Eastman was crazy,
               understood that there was no validity to [his theory] in any way, shape, or form,
               and shared their views with anyone who would listen.52
            The Vice Presidents Conclusion that He Did Not Have the Ability to Affect the Outcome
               of the Election 
            Vice President Pences counsel, Greg Jacob, was simultaneously researching the role
               of the Vice President during the joint session. The Office of the Vice President produced
               a preliminary staff memo on the subject on October 26, 2020.53 Jacob then discussed the matter with Marc Short on election day or the day before.
            This wasnt the first time Jacob would be required to write a memo about the Vice
               Presidents role in the electoral process.  Before the election, Short explained to
               him that some in the White House were encouraging President Trump to prematurely declare
               victory on election night.54 Of course, that is exactly what President Trump did. Jacob and Short wanted to avoid
               the Vice President getting drawn in to any such declarations, and Jacob pointed to
               his role in presiding over the counting of the electoral votes on January 6th as a
               reason not to. Jacob sent a memo to Short on election day reflecting this advice.55
            Then, on December 7, 2020, the Lincoln Project aired a provocative ad taunting President
               Trump, saying that Vice President Pence Will Put the Nail in Your Political Coffin
               during the joint session on January 6th.56 This prompted a discussion between Jacob and Vice President Pence.57 Jacob authored another memo, dated December 8, 2020.58 Jacob continued researching the Vice Presidents role during the joint session into
               early January. Jacob told the Select Committee that his view of the matter was not
               fully formed until then.59
            Jacob did extensive research on and historical analysis of both the Electoral Count
               Act of 1887 and the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.60 The 12th Amendment contains a single relevant line: The President of the Senate
               shall, in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates,
               and the Votes shall then be counted.61 Though Jacob concluded that this line was inartfully drafted, it said nothing about
               resolving disputes over electoral votes.62
            
                  Greg Jacob testifies before the Select Committee on June 16, 2022.
                  Photo by House Creative Services
               
            
            Jacob concluded that the Vice President must adhere to the Electoral Count Act.63 The ECA has been followed for 130 years and every single time that there has been
               any objection to electors, it has been resolved in accordance with the Electoral Count
               Act procedures, Jacob testified.64 After reviewing the history and relevant cases, Jacob found that [t]here is no justifiable
               basis to conclude that the Vice President has that kind of authority to affect the
               outcome of the presidential election.65 Jacob stated that his review of text, history, and, frankly, just common sense
               all confirmed that the Vice President had no such power.66
            President Trumps Allies Filed Lawsuits Seeking a Court Order Directing Vice President
               Pence Not to Count Certain Electoral Votes.
            
                  Representative Louie Gohmert outside the Capitol on March 17, 2021.
                  (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
               
            
            One of President Trumps congressional allies, Representative Louie Gohmert (RTX),
               pushed a version of Eastmans theory in the courts. On December 27, 2020, Representative
               Gohmert and several of the Trump Campaigns fake electors for the State of Arizona
               (including Republican Party Chair Kelli Ward) filed suit against Vice President Pence
               in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.67 As Ward explained to Marc Short in a phone call the day the suit was filed, President
               Trump was aware of the lawsuit and had signed off on it:  We wouldnt have done that
               without the president telling us it was okay, she told him.68
            In the suit, the Plaintiffs alleged that there were competing slates of electors
               from five States.69 They asked the court to rule that portions of the Electoral Count Act of 1887 were
               unconstitutional and that the Twelfth Amendment contains the exclusive dispute resolution
               mechanisms for determining an objection raised by a Member of Congress to the electors
               submitted by any State.70 Essentially, Representative Gohmert was asking the court to tell Vice President Pence
               that he was prohibited from following the procedures set forth in the Electoral Count
               Act. Much like Eastmans theory, the Gohmert plaintiffs asserted that the Vice President has the exclusive authority and sole
               discretion to determine which electoral votes to count.71
            Although the Gohmert suit was premised on the same theory Eastman advocated, Eastman did not agree with
               the decision to file suit. Eastman argued that filing a suit against the Vice President
               had close[] to zero chance of succeeding, and there was a very high risk that
               the court would issue an opinion stating that Pence has no authority to reject the
               Biden-certified ballots.72 As highlighted by Judge Carter, Eastmans theory was that Vice President Pence should
               take this action without asking for permission from Congress or the courts.73 Another attorney, Bill Olson, stated that getting a judicial determination that
               Pence is constrained by [the Electoral Count Act] could completely tank the January
               6 strategy.74 Those who were advocating to press on with the Eastman scheme did not want to bring
               it before a Federal judge because of the high risk that a courts determination that
               the scheme was illegal would stop the plan to overturn the election dead in its tracks.
            Eastman himself pushed this cavalier attitude towards the courts and compliance with
               the law during a call with Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers on January 4th. During
               this call, just two days before the joint session, Eastman pressed Speaker Bowers
               to bring the Arizona House into session to certify Trump electors or decertify the
               Biden electors.75 Speaker Bowers responded as he had previously responded to similar entreaties by
               Giuliani and President Trump: by explaining that doing so would require him to violate
               his oaths to the U.S. and Arizona Constitutions and that he wasnt going to take
               such an action.76  Undeterred, Eastman still pushed Speaker Bowers to just do it and let the courts
               sort it through.77
            Ultimately, Representative Gohmerts legal gambit failed; a U.S. district judge dismissed
               the case quickly.78 The judges ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court, which rejected Gohmerts appeal
               without further consideration.79
            Other Individuals Advising President Trump and His Campaign Also Advocated for a Role
               for the Vice President at the Joint Session.
            
                  John McEntee, February 28, 2020.
                  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
               
            
            Other individuals inside and outside the White House also advanced versions of the
               theory that the Vice President had agency in the joint session. The issue of Vice
               President Pences role came up during a December meeting in the Oval Office. Either
               President Trump or his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, tasked John McEntee, the director
               of the Presidential Personnel Office, with researching the matter further.80 Though McEntee was one of President Trumps close advisors, he was not a lawyer and
               had no relevant experience. Yet, he wrote a one-page memo claiming that the VP has
               substantial discretion to address issues with the electoral process.81
            This wasnt the only one-page analysis drafted by McEntee before January 6th.82 He later proposed a middle path in which he envisioned the Vice President accepting
               only half the electoral votes from six disputed States (specifically, Wisconsin, Michigan,
               Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona and Nevada).83 McEntee portrayed this as a way to avoid disenfranchis[ing] States while still
               achieving the desired result: delivering a second term to President Trump. McEntee
               conveyed this memo to the President with a cover note reading, This is probably our
               only realistic option because it would give Pence an out.84 McEntee told the Select Committee that this judgment was based on his assessment
               that it was, like, pretty obvious [the Vice President] wasnt going to just reject
               . . . the electors or whatever was being asked of him at that time.85
            
                  Jenna Ellis on December 2, 2020 in Lansing, Michigan.
                  (Photo by Rey Del Rio/Getty Images)
               
            
            Another advocate of a plan for the Vice President to play a role in the joint session
               was Jenna Ellis, a lawyer working for the Trump Campaign. She argued in two memos
               that Vice President Pence had the power to delay the counting of certified electoral
               votes. In the first memo, addressed to President Trump and dated December 31, 2020,
               Ellis advised that Vice President Pence should not open any of the votes from six
               States that currently have electoral delegates in dispute.86 Ellis asserted that this dispute provided sufficient rational and legal basis
               to question whether the [S]tate law and Constitution was followed. Ellis proposed
               a delay of ten days, as the Vice President and Congress awaited a response from the
               [S]tate legislatures, which would then need to meet in an emergency electoral session.
               If any of the State legislatures fails to provide a timely response, no electoral
               votes can be opened and counted from that [S]tate. Ellis claimed that Vice President
               Pence would not be exercising discretion nor establishing new precedent, but instead
               simply asking for clarification from the constitutionally appointed authority.87
            Ellis sent the substance of this memorandum in an email to Fox News host Jeanine Pirro
               on January 1, 2021, under the subject line Constitutional option.88 And, on January 4, 2021, she sent the same substance to Fox News contributor John
               Solomon under the subject line Pence option.89
            Ellis addressed a second memo, dated January 5, 2021, to Jay Sekulow, an outside attorney
               who represented President Trump during his first impeachment proceedings and in other
               litigation.90 Ellis again claimed that Vice President Pence had the power to delay the certification
               of the vote. Ellis recommended that the Vice President should, when he arrived at
               the first contested State (Arizona), simply stop the count on the basis that the
               States had not made a final determination of ascertainment of electors. The [S]tates
               would therefore have to act.91
            Sekulow clearly disagreed. Some have speculated that the Vice President could simply
               say, Im not going to accept these electors, that he has the authority to do that
               under the Constitution, Sekulow said during an episode of his radio show.92 I actually dont think thats what the Constitution has in mind. Sekulow added
               that the Vice President serves a merely ministerial, procedural function.93
            In addition, Herschmann discussed this memo with Sekulow. They agreed that Ellis did
               not have the qualifications or the experience to be giving advice on this or to
               be litigating the challenges that President Trumps team was filing in court.94 Herschmann did not think that Sekulow shared the memo with the President.95
            5.2 President Trump and his Allies Exert Intense Public and Private Pressure on the Vice
               President in Advance of the Joint Session of Congress on January 6th
            January 2, 2021: The Vice President Meets with His Advisors, Cementing His Intended
               Path for the Joint Session.
            On January 2, 2021, Vice President Pence met with his counsel Greg Jacob, Chief of
               Staff Marc Short, and Matt Morgan to discuss the joint session.96 Morgan was the Trump Campaigns General Counsel and had previously served as counsel
               to Vice President Pence. At this point, the Vice President already had a clear understanding
               of what his role would be in the electoral count.97 Vice President Pence was concerned that most people did not understand how the certification
               of the electoral votes worked. So Jacob began drafting a statement for the Vice President
               to issue on January 6th. The statement was intended to provide a civic education
               on the joint session, explaining to the American people his actions, including why
               the Vice President didnt have the authorities that others had suggested that he
               might.98
            The men discussed the various points of pressure being applied to the Vice President,
               including Eastmans theories, the Gohmert suit, Elliss arguments, as well as how the electoral count process should work.
               They also discussed allegations of irregularities and maladministration of the election,
               concluding that none of the allegations raised was sufficient to reverse President
               Trumps defeat.99
            While Vice President Pence recognized Congresss authority under the Electoral Count
               Act to raise objections to the certification, neither he nor his staff were aware
               of any evidence of fraud that would have had a material effect on the outcome of the
               election in any State.100 Because of President Trumps repetition of election fraud allegations, Jacob and
               the Vice Presidents staff conducted their own evaluation of these claims. Jacob asked
               Morgan to send the campaigns best evidence of election fraud, maladministration,
               irregularities, [and] abuses in the system.101 The Vice Presidents legal staff memorialized the review they conducted of these
               materials in a memo to Vice President Pence, which concluded: most allegations of
               substantive voter frauddefined to mean the casting of illegal ballots in violation
               of prevailing election lawsare either relatively small in number, or cannot be verified.102
            Vice President Pence also discussed the Trump Campaigns fake electors with his advisors.
               Both Jacob and Morgan assured Vice President Pence that there were not dual slates
               of electors. The electors organized by the Trump Campaign were not valid.103 Morgan had already written a memo on the topic in December, concluding that the alternate
               electorsthat is, fakelacked a certificate of ascertainment issued by the State.104 Without such an ascertainment, the Trump Campaigns fake electors had no standing
               during the joint session. Jacob had also prepared a flow chart memo outlining each
               of the legal provisions implicated in the joint session on January 6th.105 Jacob advised Vice President Pence that none of the slates that had been sent in
               would qualify as an alternate slate within the meaning of the Electoral Count Act.106 Vice President Pence was still worried that the fake elector issue was sowing confusion,
               so he wanted his statement on January 6th to be as transparent as possible.107
            That same day, January 2nd, Marc Short released a brief statement on behalf of the
               Vice President. Vice President Pence shares the concerns of millions of Americans
               about voter fraud and irregularities in the last election, the statement read. The
               vice president welcomes the efforts of members of the House and Senate to use the
               authority they have under the law to raise objections and bring forward evidence before
               the Congress and the American people on January 6th.108 Short testified that the statement was consistent with the Vice Presidents view
               that he did not have the power to reject electors.109 Short issued this statement because of the swirl regarding the question of where
               [Vice President Pence] stood.110
            Steve Bannons podcast, War Room: Pandemic, was one of the primary sources of this swirl.
            January 2, 2021: Eastman and Bannon Question the Courage and Spine of Vice President
               Pence. 
            Steve Bannons podcast, War Room: Pandemic, was one of the primary sources of this swirl.  Eastman was a guest on a January
               2nd episode of Bannons show. Much of their conversation focused on Vice President
               Pence, and the belief that he had the power to overturn the election.
            [W]e are entering into one of the most, um, important constitutional crisis [sic] the countrys ever had, Bannon said.111 Bannon complained that Vice President Pence had spit the bit, meaning he had given
               up on efforts to keep President Trump in power.112 Eastman claimed that the election had been illegally conducted, and so the certified
               votes now devolved back to the [S]tate legislature[s], and the only other place where
               it devolved back to is to Congress and particularly the Vice President, who will sit
               in presiding over a Joint Session of Congress beginning on January 6 to count the
               ballots.113 Eastman claimed that the Vice President (and Congress) had the power to reject the
               certified electors from several States out-of-hand. [T]heyve got multiple slates
               of ballots from seven states, Eastman said. And theyve gotta decide [] which is
               the valid slate to count . . . I think they have that authority to make that determination
               on their own.114
            Bannon claimed the Vice President of the United States is hardwired in, and an actual
               decisionmaker.115 The Vice Presidents role is not ministerial, Bannon declared.116 Eastman agreed.117 Are we to assume that this is going to be a climactic battle thats going to take
               place this week about the very question of the constitutionality of the Electoral
               Count Act of 1887? Bannon asked.118
            Eastman replied, I think a lot of that depends on the courage and the spine of the
               individuals involved. Bannon asked Eastman if he meant Vice President Mike Pence.
               Yes, Eastman answered.119
            January 3, 2021: Eastman Drafts Another January 6 Scenario Memo War Gaming the
               Ways that Vice President Pence Could Change the Outcome of the Election. 
            The next day, January 3, 2021, Eastman drafted a six-page memo that imagined several
               scenarios for January 6th, only some of which led to President Trumps victory.120 In a section titled, War Gaming the Alternatives, Eastman set forth the ways he
               thought President Trump could remain in power.121 Importantly, Eastman concluded that President Trump could remain president ifand
               only ifVice President Pence followed Eastmans illegal advice and determined which
               electoral college ballots were valid.122 In another scenario, Eastman imagined that President Trump may somehow win re-election
               in January 2021 if Vice President Pence remanded the electoral votes to State legislatures,
               such that they could have ten days to investigate President Trumps baseless claims
               of fraud. In that case, Eastman allowed that former Vice President Biden may still
               win, should the State legislatures determine that the evidence was insufficient to
               alter the results of the election.123
            Eastman Knew that there Were No Valid Alternate Slates, But He Nonetheless Predicated
               His Advice to the Vice President and President on this Claim.
            In his six-page memo, consistent with the earlier two-page memo, Eastman states that
               the Trump electors met and transmitted votes, finding that [t]here are thus dual
               slates of electors from 7 [S]tates.124 Even since January 6th, Eastman has continued to affirm and defend his assertion
               that there were dual slates of electors, writing: Trump electors from seven [S]tates
               in which election challenges were still pending met (albeit of their own accord) on
               the date designated by Congress, cast their votes, and transmitted those votes to
               Congress.125
            Eastman used these slates as a premise for his argument that the result of the election
               was disputed. However, Eastman acknowledged on multiple occasionsboth before and after January 6ththat these dual slates had no legal significance. In an email sent on December 19,
               2020, Eastman wrote that the seven Trump/Pence slates of electors will be dead on
               arrival in Congress unless those electors get a certification from their State Legislators.126 Of course, this certification never came and there was no basis for any action on
               the dual slates.127
            Nevertheless, on December 23, 2020, Eastman used the existence of these slates as
               a justification for the Vice President to act, in an email to Boris Epshteyn, a Trump
               Campaign lawyer. The fact that we have multiple slates of electors demonstrates the
               uncertainty of either. That should be enough.128
            Again after January 6th, Eastman acknowledged in an email that the fake electors
               documents were invalid and irrelevant.129 Alas, he said, [T]hey had no authority because [n]o legislature certified them.130
            Eastman concluded his memo by asserting that his plan was BOLD, Certainly, but he
               attempted to justify it, arguing that this Election was Stolen by a strategic Democrat
               plan to systematically flout existing election laws for partisan advantage; were
               no longer playing by Queensbury Rules, therefore.131
            Eastman repeated what he wrote in his earlier, shorter memo, claiming that Vice President
               Pence should act without asking for permissioneither from a vote of the joint session
               or from the Court.132 Eastman claimed that the Constitution assigns this power to the Vice President as
               the ultimate arbiter.133 Eastman ended on an especially hyperbolic note. If the elections results were not
               upended, then the sovereign people no longer control the direction of their government,
               and we will have ceased to be a self-governing people. The stakes could not be higher.134
            January 4, 2021: President Trump and Eastman Meet with Pence and His Staff in the
               Oval Office.
            Eastman Argues in an Oval Office Meeting that the Vice President can Reject Electoral
               Votes or that He Can Delay the Certification, Sending the Electoral Votes Back to
               the States.
            Late in the afternoon of January 4, 2021, President Trump summoned Vice President
               Pence to the Oval Office for a showdown.135 President Trump and Eastman sought to convince the Vice President that he had the
               power to refuse to count the certified electors from several States won by former
               Vice President Biden.
            Short and Jacob attended with the Vice President.136 Trumps chief of staff, Mark Meadows, was only briefly present, leaving as the meeting
               started.137
            The White House Counsel is Excluded from the Meeting.
            One key lawyer was conspicuously absent: Pat Cipollone, the White House Counsel. Cipollone
               and his deputy, Pat Philbin, were shooting down a series of terrible proposals at
               the time.138 Philbin told the Select Committee that he considered resigning every day from approximately
               November 15 until the end of the administration.139 Philbin had researched the Vice Presidents role in the January 6th joint session
               and concluded that Vice President Pence had no power to affect the outcome.140 Cipollone agreed and informed Short and Jacob that this was the opinion of White
               House Counsels Office.141
            Mark Meadows invited Cipollone to speak with Eastman prior to the Oval Office meeting.142 Cipollone told Eastman that his scheme was not something that is consistent with
               the appropriate reading of the law.143 After delivering this assessment directly to Eastman in Meadows office, Cipollone
               walked to the Oval Office with the intent to attend the meeting. However, by the time
               the Vice President and his staff arrived, Cipollone was gone.144
            
                  Pat Cipollone is seen on a screen during a Select Committee hearing on July 12, 2022.
                  (Photo by Sarah Silbiger-Pool/Getty Images)
               
            
            Cipollone declined to testify as to what he told President Trump or why he did not
               attend the Oval Office meeting, but he was clear that he didnt end up attending the
               meeting because of something that happened after he walked into the Oval Office.145 Whatever happened, Cipollone maintained, was protected by executive privilege, suggesting
               that he was asked to leave by the President.146 What is clear, however, is that Cipollone had already shared his view directly with
               Meadows and Eastman, i.e., that the proposal President Trump and Eastman were about
               to advocate to the Vice President was illegal.147
            During this Oval Office Meeting, Eastman Admits that Both Paths are Based on the Same
               Legal Theory and Concedes His Plan Violates the Electoral Count Act.
            During the Oval Office meeting, Eastman claimed that there were two legally viable
               options.148 First, Vice President Pence could reject outright the certified electors submitted
               by several States, and second, he could suspend the joint session and send the disputed
               electoral votes back to the States.149 Eastman advised that the Vice President had the raw authority to determine objections
               himself, according to Jacob.150 However, by the end of the meeting Eastman was emphasizing the second option that
               he argued would be more politically palatable than the more aggressive option
               of the Vice President rejecting electoral votes outright.151 If Vice President Pence did not want to reject the electors, Eastman claimed, then
               the Vice President could send the certified electoral votes back to the States for
               further deliberation.
            Eastman later conceded that both actions were based on the same underlying legal theory
               of the Vice Presidents power.152 Eastman also admittedduring this meeting with the President and Vice Presidentthat his proposal violated the Electoral Count Act.153 Moreover, Eastman eventually acknowledged that the concept of the Vice President
               unilaterally rejecting electors was not supported by precedent and that the Supreme
               Court would never endorse it.154
            Jacob recorded his reflections on the January 4th meeting in a contemporaneous memo
               to the Vice President.155 Jacobs memo confirms that Eastman admitted that his proposal violated the law in
               the presence of President Trump.
            First, Jacob wrote, Eastman acknowledged that his proposal violates several provisions
               of statutory lawnamely, the Electoral Count Act of 1887.156 Jacobs memo explains that the Electoral Count Act calls for all vote certificates
               to be acted upon, and any objections to a States certificates be finally disposed
               of. However, as Jacob wrote, Eastman was proposing instead that no action be taken
               on the certificates from the States Eastman asserted were contested. And, according
               to the Electoral Count Act, the Vice President (as President of the Senate) is to
               call for objections. But Eastman did not want the Vice President to call for objections
               for these States. As Jacob noted, this would have deprived Congress of the ability
               under the Act to make, debate, and vote on objections.157
            Additionally, the Electoral Count Act contains a provision that requires any competing
               slates of electors to be submitted to the Senate and House for debate and disposition.
               As Jacob noted, Eastman conceded that the alternate (fake) electors votes were
               not proper. But Eastmans proposal still would have refused to count the real electors
               votes from those States and instead referred both the real and fake electors votes
               to State legislatures for disposition. Finally, in order for State legislatures
               to take action to determine which of the slates should be counted, Eastmans proposal
               called for an extended recess of the joint session. But this too would have violated
               the Electoral Count Act, which provides only for very short delays.158
            There was another foundational problem with Eastmans plan. There were no legitimate
               competing or alternate slates of electors. President Trump, Eastman and others
               had manufactured the conditions they needed in order to claim that the election result
               was disputed by convening fake electors who sent fake documents to Washington before
               January 6th. And their efforts to convince State legislatures to certify Trump electors
               had already failed.
            Jacob noted in his memo that in the Oval Office meeting, Eastman conceded no legislature
               has appointed or certified any alternate slate of electors and that the purported
               alternate slates (fake electors) were illegitimate without what Jacob described
               as the imprimatur of approval by a State legislature.159 Moreover, Eastman acknowledged that no Republican-controlled legislative majority
               in any disputed States has expressed an intention to designate an alternate slate
               of electors.160 In other words, Eastman acknowledged that the fake votes were invalid, that no State
               legislature had approved them, and no State legislature would approve them.161 But President Trump and Eastman still pressed this unlawful scheme on the Vice President.
               Although Eastman started the January 4th Oval Office meeting maintaining that Vice
               President Pence had unilateral authority to reject electors, by the end of the meeting
               he conceded that he would not recommend that the Vice President assert that he has
               the authority unilaterally to decide which of the competing slates of electors should
               be counted.162
            Jacob ended his memo with a scathing summary. If the Vice President implemented Professor
               Eastmans proposal, he would likely lose in court, Jacob wrote. In a best-case scenario
               in which the courts refused to get involved, the Vice President would likely find
               himself in an isolated standoff against both houses of Congress, as well as most or
               all of the applicable State legislatures, with no neutral arbiter to break the impasse.163
            Following the Oval Office meeting, during the evening of January 4, 2021, Jacob invited
               Eastman to send along any written materials on electoral vote counting issues, including
               a law review article by Laurence Tribe that Eastman had cited in the Oval Office meeting
               that day, for Jacob to review on the Vice Presidents behalf.164 Jacob reviewed everything that Eastman submitted; nothing changed the analysis he
               had already done for the Vice President, indeed much of it did not even support Eastmans
               own arguments.165
            The Vice President was Not Persuaded by Eastmans Theory and Remained Convinced That
               His Role at the Joint Session would be Merely Ceremonial. 
            Pence did not relent on January 4th, or at any point during the harrowing two days
               that followed. [F]rom my very first conversation with the Vice President on the subject,
               his immediate instinct was that there is no way that one person could be entrusted
               by the Framers to exercise that authority, Jacob testified. And never once did I
               see him budge from that view, and the legal advice that I provided him merely reinforced
               it. So, everything that he said or did during [the January 4th meeting in the Oval
               Office] was consistent with his first instincts on this question.166
            January 4, 2021: President Trump Publicly Pressures the Vice President During a Rally
               Speech in Georgia.
            President Trump did not relent either. His instinct was to increase public pressure
               on Vice President Pence, despite the Vice Presidents consistent message to President
               Trump about the limits of his authority. That evening, during a Senate campaign rally
               in Dalton, Georgia, President Trump made it seem as if the Presidential election hadnt
               already been decided and projected his unhinged ambitions onto his opponents.167 President Trump claimed that theres nothing the radical Democrats will not do to
               get power that they so desperately crave, including the outright stealing of elections,
               like theyre trying to do with us.168
            Were not going to let it happen, President Trump said, adding, I hope Mike Pence
               comes through for us, I have to tell you. President Trump called Vice President Pence
               a great vice president, a great guy, as well as a wonderful and smart man.
               But he alluded to the Vice Presidents role, hes going to have a lot to say about
               it, and added an ominous note. Of course, if he doesnt come through, I wont like
               him quite as much, President Trump said.169
            January 5, 2021: Eastman Pressures Pences Staff in a Private Meeting While President
               Trump Tweets.
            In a Reversal of Where the Oval Office Meeting Ended the Day Before, Eastman Argues
               that Pence Should Reject Electors Outright. 
            Eastman met with Jacob and Short again the following day.170 During the Oval Office meeting the Vice President had made clear that he would not
               unilaterally reject electors, and, by pivoting to recommend the Vice President send
               the electors back to the States, Eastman seemed to recognize this. But the following
               morning, Eastman returned to pressing for the more aggressive path.171
            Jacob recorded Eastmans request on January 5, 2021, in a handwritten note: Requesting
               VP reject.172 Jacob later summarized Eastmans remarks as follows: Im here asking you to reject
               the electors.173 This overnight reversal surprised Jacob because Eastman was returning to the more
               aggressive position he had seemed to abandon in the Oval Office meeting the day before.174 President Trumps tweets that morning may explain Eastmans reversal. While Eastman
               was meeting with the Vice Presidents staff, his client, President Trump, was pressing
               the argument publicly.
            At 11:06 a.m. on the morning of January 5th, President Trump tweeted: The Vice President
               has the power to reject fraudulently chosen electors. As his tweet made clear, President
               Trump would not be persuaded by reasonor the law. The President made this public
               statement despite the Vice Presidents clear and consistent rejection of this theory
               including during an in-person meeting the day before. During that same meeting, Eastman
               conceded that this aggressive path of rejecting electors was not advisable.
            Herschmann briefly participated in the January 5th meeting, seeing it as an opportunity
               . . . to just chew [Eastman] out.175 Herschmann had already pushed back brutal[ly] on Eastmans theory regarding the
               Vice President.  In this  conversation, he emphasized the need to fact check dubious
               claims of election fraud.176 Herschmann told Eastman that someone better make sure that the allegations Eastman
               provided to members of Congress were accurate before they objected to the certification
               of the vote the next day.177 [N]othing should come out of someones mouth that [isnt] independently verified
               and [] reliable.178
            At the End of the Morning Meeting, Eastman Concedes to Pences Counsel That His Theory
               Has No Historical Support. 
            Jacob then had his own Socratic debate with Eastman over the legal merits of his
               position. According to Jacob, Eastman conceded much ground by the end of the session.
               Eastman all but admitted that it [his plan] didnt work.179
            For example, Eastman had previously claimed to have found historical support in the
               actions of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, who both presided over the counting of
               electoral votes when they were Vice President. Not so. Jacob told the Select Committee
               that Eastman conceded in private that the cases of Jefferson and Adams did not serve
               as examples for the proposition that he was trying to support of a Vice Presidential
               assertion of authority to decide disputes[,] because no dispute was raised in either
               case during the joint session. Jacob added: And, moreover, there was no [question]
               as to the outcomes in those States.180
            Eastman conceded that there was no historical support for the role that he and President
               Trump were pushing Vice President Pence to play. No Vice Presidentbefore or after
               the adoption of the Electoral Count Acthad ever exercised such authority. This included
               then-Vice President Richard Nixons handling of the electoral votes of Hawaii following
               the 1960 election. Though Eastman and other Trump lawyers used this Hawaii example
               to justify the theory that the Vice President could unilaterally choose which electors
               to count, Eastman admitted to Jacob that Vice President Nixon had not in fact done
               what Eastman was recommending Vice President Pence do.181
            Eastman also admitted that he would not grant the expansive powers he advocated for
               Vice President Pence to any other Vice President. Eastman did not think that Vice
               President Kamala Harris should have such power in 2025, nor did he think that Vice
               President Al Gore should have had such authority in 2001.182 He also acknowledged that his theory would lose 9-0 at the Supreme Court.183
            According to Jacob, Eastman acknowledged by the end that, first of all, no reasonable
               person would actually want that clause [of the 12th Amendment] read that way because
               if indeed it did mean that the Vice President had such authority, you could never
               have a party switch thereafter. If politicians followed Eastmans advice, [y]ou
               would just have the same party win continuously if indeed a Vice President had the
               authority to just declare the winner of every State.184
            The Vice Presidents office was unmoved by Eastmans specious reasoning. As he left
               Marc Shorts office, Eastman was thinking of his clients reaction. Theyre going
               to be really disappointed that I wasnt able to persuade you, Eastman said.185
            Former Republican Officials with Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Experience All
               Agreed with Vice President Pences Conclusion about His Limited Role at the Joint
               Session. 
            
                  John Michael Luttig testifies before the Select Committee on June 16, 2022.
                  Photo by House Creative Services
               
            
            As President Trumps pressure campaign intensified, the Vice Presidents outside counsel,
               Richard Cullen, turned for support to John Michael Luttig, a conservative former judge
               of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.186 Eastman had clerked for Luttiga man with impeccable legal and conservative credentialsmore
               than two decades prior. Luttig rejected Eastmans so-called legal analysis of the
               Vice Presidents role in no uncertain terms. In a series of tweets, posted at 9:53
               a.m. on January 5th, Luttig set forth his legal conclusions.
            The only responsibility and power of the Vice President under the Constitution is
               to faithfully count the electoral college votes as they have been cast, Judge Luttig
               wrote. The Constitution does not empower the Vice President to alter in any way the
               votes that have been cast, either by rejecting certain of them or otherwise.187
            Confusion in the media about where the Vice President stood on this issue prompted
               former Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to reach out to the Vice President to share
               his belief that the Vice President had no unilateral authority.188 Short also spoke with former Speaker Ryan and as he testified to the Select Committee,
               I said to him, Mr. Speaker, you know Mike . . . you know he recognizes that. And
               we sort of laughed about it, and he said, I get it.189
            The Vice President also consulted with former Vice President Dan Quayle, who reinforced
               and affirmed Vice President Pences consistent understanding of his role.190
            January 5, 2021: President Trump Again Pressures Vice President Pence in a One-on-One
               Meeting at the White House and Another Phone Call with Eastman.
            President Trump demanded to see Vice President Pence again that same day. Vice President
               Pence had canceled a planned lunch with President Trump, intending to work on the
               statement he planned to issue on January 6th to explain publicly why he wouldnt bow
               to the Presidents pressure.191 But Pence couldnt avoid Trump. Vice President Pence had to delay a Coronavirus Task
               Force meeting later that same day when he was called to the Oval Office to meet with
               the President.192
            The two men met alone, without staff present. While we have not developed direct evidence
               of what was discussed during this one-on-one meeting between the President and Vice
               President, it did not change the fundamental disagreement between them about the limits
               of the Vice Presidents authority during the joint session. Jacob said the Vice President
               left the meeting determined.193 Vice President Pence did tell Marc Short what transpired during the meeting, but
               Short refused to tell the Select Committee what was said.194 Short described Vice President Pences demeanor as steady.195 Short testified that the below excerpt from the book Peril may have been sensationalized but was generally consistent with Shorts understanding
               of the discussion:
            If these people say you have the power, wouldnt you want to? Trump asked.
            I wouldnt want any one person to have that authority, Pence said.
            But wouldnt it almost be cool to have that power? Trump asked.
            No, Pence said. Look, Ive read this, and I dont see a way to do it. Weve exhausted
               every option. Ive done everything I could and then some to find a way around this.
               Its simply not possible. My interpretation is: No. . . .
            No, no, no! Trump shouted. You dont understand, Mike. You can do this. I dont
               want to be your friend anymore if you dont do this.196
            Later that day, Jacob and Short were both present for a call between President Trump
               and Vice President Pence.197 Eastman and at least one other lawyer were with President Trump on the call as well.198
            Eastman recognized that Vice President Pence was not going to change his mind on rejecting
               electors outright, but he still asked if the Vice President would consider sending
               the electors back to the States.199 I dont see it, Vice President Pence responded, but my counsel will hear out whatever
               Mr. Eastman has to say.200
            Jacob received other calls from Eastman on January 5th.201 Jacob told the Select Committee that he had a detailed discussion with Eastman concerning
               the ways his proposal would violate the Electoral Count Act.202 Eastman resorted to a ridiculous argumentcomparing their current situation to the
               crisis that faced President Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War. Eastman invoked
               President Lincolns suspension of the writ of habeas corpus.203 He also told Jacob to stay tuned because we were trying to get some letters from
               State legislators indicating that they were interested in the Vice President sending
               the electors back to the States.204
            January 5, 2021: An Accurate New York Times Article about the Vice President Prompts
               a False Statement in Response by President Trump. 
            On the evening of January 5th, The New York Times published an article titled, Pence Said to Have Told Trump He Lacks Power to Change
               Election Result.205 The Times reported on the tension brewing within the White House, citing people briefed on
               the conversation between President Trump and Vice President Pence that had taken
               place in the Oval Office the previous day. Vice President Mike Pence told President
               Trump on Tuesday [January 4th] that he did not believe he had the power to block congressional
               certification of Joseph R. Biden, Jr.s victory in the presidential election despite
               Mr. Trumps baseless insistence that he did, the Times reported.206
            The Times report was published at approximately 7:36 that evening.207 Jason Miller called President Trump to make sure he had seen it.208 President Trump spoke to Miller at least twice, once at 8:18 p.m. and a second time
               at 9:22 p.m.209 Immediately after concluding his second call with Jason Miller, President Trump asked
               to speak to the Vice President; President Trump and Vice President Pence spoke from
               9:33 to 9:41 p.m.210 President Trump also spoke with Steve Bannon and Eastman, among others.211
            At 9:58 p.m. on January 5th, President Trump issued a statement that he had dictated
               to Jason Miller disputing the Times account.212 President Trump liedrepeatedlyin his short statement.213 The President claimed the article was fake news. It wasnt. President Trump claimed
               he and Vice President Pence were in total agreement that the Vice President has the
               power to act. They werent. President Trump claimed the election was illegal. It
               wasnt. President Trump then laid out Vice President Pences options for the next
               day, summarizing Eastmans theory:
            Our Vice President has several options under the U.S. Constitution. He can decertify
               the results or send them back to the [S]tates for change and certification. He can
               also decertify the illegal and corrupt results and send them to the House of Representatives
               for the one vote for one [S]tate tabulation.214
            This was also a blatant attempt to mischaracterize the Vice Presidents position in
               the hope that public opinion would somehow sway the resolute Vice President. President
               Trump knew full well at the time that he and Vice President Pence were not in total agreement. The Vice Presidents counsel, Greg Jacob, was shocked by the
               statement.215 [T]he Vice President was not in agreement that the Vice President had the power
               to take the actions that were being asked of him that day, Jacob later told the Select
               Committee.216 Marc Short was furious as well and called Jason Miller to forcefully express [his]
               displeasure that a statement could have gone out that misrepresented the Vice Presidents
               viewpoint without consultation.217
            The Vice President was obviously irritated that a statement putting words in his
               mouth was issued by the President and considered issuing his own statement contradicting
               President Trumps.218 Ultimately, Pence and Short concluded that it was not worthwhile since it was already
               late in the evening and they expected the question to be resolved by Vice President
               Pences Dear Colleague letter the next day.219
            January 5, 2021: Bannon Publicly Amplifies the Pressure on Vice President Pence. 
            While President Trump misrepresented the Vice Presidents agreement with Eastmans
               theory, his on-again, off-again political advisor, Steve Bannon, pressed President
               Trumps campaign against Vice President Pence in public. Bannon echoed the public
               pressure on Pence that the President continued to propagate by talking about his purported
               authority. The Select Committee learned from phone records that Bannon spoke to President
               Trump at least twice on January 5th.220
            During a January 5, 2021, episode of War Room: Pandemic, Bannon and his guests openly berated Vice President Pence. Bannon cited an erroneous
               news report claiming that Senator Grassley would preside over the certification of
               the electoral college voteinstead of Vice President Pence.221 Bannons cohost, Raheem Kassam, took credit for the public pressure placed on Vice
               President Pence. I want to remind people who has been sitting here, saying Light
               Pence Up for the last couple of weeks. Right? That would be Raheem Kassam. They
               then discussed President Trumps speech in Georgia the previous evening. I think
               the President of the United States took your advice last night, wrote a line in there,
               Bannon said. To which Kasseem responded: . . . and yours . . . hold the line.
            Jack Posobiec, an alt-right personality with a large Twitter following, chimed in
               quoting a member of their audience as saying that Pence will betray Donald Trump.222 In response, Bannon stated: Call the play. Run the play.223
            The play was Bannons version of the Green Bay Sweepa plan to subvert the transfer
               of power on January 6th named for a brutally effective power running play developed
               in the National Football League (NFL) in the 1960s. Steve Bannons political version
               of the sweep was intended to undermine the legitimate results of the 2020 presidential
               election.
            One account of Bannons Green Bay Sweep comes from Peter Navarro, Director of the
               White House Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy. Navarro refused to cooperate
               with the Select Committee and was subsequently indicted for contempt of Congress.
               Although he doesnt fully explain in his book, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year, how Bannons sweep was intended to work, Navarro writes that Vice President Pence
               was envisioned as the quarterback who would assert his constitutional power to
               delay certification.224 Navarro writes that his own role was to carefully document the fraud and myriad
               election irregularities, while Bannons role was to figure out how to use this informationwhat
               he called the receipts.225
            Navarros account helps explain why Trump and his loyalists became so fixated on Vice
               President Pence. They saw Vice President Pence as their last hope for keeping President
               Trump in office. Navarro writes of Pences supposed betrayal.226 In a telling sentence, Navarro likens Vice President Pence to Brutus, a Roman politician
               and the most famous assassin of Julius Caesar. Navarro writes: 
            On this cold, momentous day, I shiver as I think to myself, January 6 will be either
               Mike Pences finest hour or the traitorous Et tu, Brute? end of both his and Donald
               Trumps political careers.227
            The goal of these Trump allies was clear: to overturn the election result.228 Statements by participants in this effort indicate there were several different endgame
               strategies in mind. One was to get the Vice President to unilaterally reject the Electoral
               College votes of Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania, and other States, then simply declare
               that Trump had won a majority of the electors actually submitted. The other major
               possibility was to reject or return the Electoral College votes of these States
               and then declare there was no majority in the Electoral College process, thereby triggering
               a so-called contingent election under the 12th Amendment.229 This would have meant that the House of Representatives had chosen the president
               not on the basis of one-member-one-vote, but on the basis of one-State-one-vote, pursuant
               to the 12th Amendment. Donald Trumps strategists emphasized repeatedly that the GOP
               had a 27-to-22 margin in control of the States Congressional delegations, with Pennsylvania
               being tied at 9-to-9, therefore presumably a non-factor.
            5.3 President Trump and his Allies Continue to Pressure the Vice President on January
               6th, Threatening His Life and Our Democracy.
            January 6, 2021: President Trump Continued to Falsely Assert in Multiple Tweets Posted
               the Morning of January 6th that the Vice President Had a Role to Play in the Outcome
               of the Election.
            Despite the public pressure initiated by the President and amplified by Bannon, Navarro
               and others, there was no ambiguity in the Vice Presidents decision. By January 6th,
               President Trump had been told multiple times that Vice President Pence was not going
               to reject the certified electors from any State. Nor was Vice President Pence going
               to move for a delay and send the electors back to the States. Either move would have
               been illegal, requiring Vice President Pence to break the law, violating his oath
               to the U.S. Constitution. Pence made his decision clear [m]any times to President
               Trump, and he was very consistent in rejecting the Presidents demands.230 President Trump continued to publicly pressure the Vice President anyway.
            At 1:00 a.m. on January 6th, President Trump tweeted: 
            If Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many
               States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect &amp; even fraudulent
               numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures (which it must be).
               Mike can send it back!231
            Later that morning, at 8:17 a.m., President Trump tweeted again:
            States want to correct their votes, which they now know were based on irregularities
               and fraud, plus corrupt process never received legislative approval. All Mike Pence
               has to do is send them back to the States, AND WE WIN. Do it Mike, this is a time
               for extreme courage!232
            And, at 8:22 a.m., President Trump tweeted again, making a pitch for Congress to choose
               him, as if peoples votes on election day and the electoral college didnt matter:
            THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND, MORE IMPORTANTLY, OUR COUNTRY, NEEDS THE PRESIDENCY MORE
               THAN EVER BEFORETHE POWER OF THE VETO. STAY STRONG!233
            President Trumps tweets made it clear that he thought the Republican State legislatures
               would simply deliver him victory. President Trump emphasized this point, writing twice
               that if Vice President Pence gave in, we win. However, there was no sign of a change
               in the Vice Presidents position. A moment of truth was looming.
             January 6, 2021: President Trump Has a [H]eated Conversation with Vice President
               Pence Before his Rally on the Ellipse.
            President Trump tried to reach Vice President Pence by phone early that morning.234 He finally talked to his Vice President at approximately 11:20 a.m.235 The exchange quickly became contentious. 
            
                  President Trump on the phone in the Oval Office.
                  Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration.
               
            
            Eric Herschmann, a lawyer in the White House Counsels Office, overheard the conversation.
               Members of President Trumps family and other White House officials were present as
               well.236 Herschmann recalled that it started off as a calmer tone, everything, and then it
               became heated.237 Ivanka Trump also described the call as pretty heated.238 Ivanka Trump elaborated: It was a different tone than Id heard him take with the
               Vice President before.239  Ivanka Trump told her Chief of Staff, Julie Radford, that her dad had just had
               an upsetting conversation with the Vice President.240 President Trump had even called Vice President Pence the P Word.241
            Nick Luna, President Trumps personal assistant (commonly known as the body man),
               was also in the Oval Office during the conversation. Luna told the Select Committee
               that President Trump called Vice President Pence a wimp on the call, with President
               Trump adding that he made the wrong decision in choosing Pence as his running mate.242
            Keith Kellogg, Vice President Pences National Security Advisor, also heard the conversation.
               President Trump told the Vice President that, you know, he has legal authority to
               send these folks [the electors] back to the respective States, Kellogg told the Select
               Committee.243 President Trump insisted that Vice President Pence had the constitutional authority
               to reject certain electoral college votes.244 When Vice President Pence would not budge, President Trump told him youre not tough
               enough to make the call.245
            But Vice President Pence would not be bullied. The Vice President, who was at his
               residence at the time, had been meeting with Greg Jacob to finalize the statement
               he would be releasing later that day.  When the President called, Pence stepped away
               to answer the phone.  According to Jacob, when Pence returned, he did not say anything
               about the callbut he looked steely, determined, [and] grim, as he reentered the
               room.246
            c. January 6, 2021: Trump, Eastman and Giuliani Continue to Pressure Vice President
               Pence at the Ellipse Rally. 
            Despite the Vice Presidents unwavering stance, the President and his outside counsel
               continued to turn up the heat of public pressure. 
            At President Trumps urging, thousands had gathered on the morning of January 6th
               to hear the President and others speak at a rally held at the Ellipse, a park just
               south of the White House. Before President Trump spoke, Eastman took the stage alongside
               Giuliani. Both would further amplify the Presidents public pressure on the Vice President,
               but when Giuliani spoke on the Ellipse, he already knew that what Eastman had outlined
               would never practically happen.
            At 9:31 a.m. that morning, Giuliani called Eric Herschmann out of the blue to ask
               him for his view and analysis of the practical implications of Eastmans theory.247 According to Herschmann, after an intellectual discussion about . . . the VPs role,
               Giuliani agreed that the practical implication of [what Eastman had proposed] would
               be almost impossible.248 Immediately after this 5 minute conversation with Herschmann, Giuliani had two calls with the White House,
               at 9:41 a.m. and 9:53 a.m.249
            Giuliani recognized Eastman who joined him on stage, claiming that he was one of the preeminent constitutional scholars in the United States.250
            Giuliani said Vice President Pence could either decide on the validity of these crooked
               ballots, or he can send it back to the legislat[ures], give them five to 10 days to
               finally finish the work.251 He added that that they had letters from five legislat[ures] begging us to do that.252 This was not true. At most, what Giuliani, Eastman and other allies of President
               Trump had managed to procure were letters from individual State legislators or groups
               of State legislators. None of the letters came from a majority of any States legislative
               chamber, let alone a majority of an entire State legislature.253
            For instance, a letter that Eastman described to Jacob as a [m]ajor new development
               on the evening of January 5th contained the signatures of 21 members of the Pennsylvania
               Senate.254 Eastman claimed that it now looks like PA Legislature will vote to recertify its
               electors if Vice President Pence implements the plan we discussed, but the letter
               asked only for a delay in certification to allow for due process.255 The Select Committee learned from the most senior Pennsylvania Senate Republican
               that he signed the letter because of pressure he was feeling due to the voluminous
               post-election outreach from President Trump, Trump allies, and the public.256 And, he only agreed to sign a letter directed to Congressional leadersnot the Vice
               Presidentafter raising in a conversation with Vice President Pences brother, Congressman
               Greg Pence, his desire to avoid pressuring the Vice President.257
            Moreover, as Jacob explained, what any of the State legislatures said they did or
               did not want to do had no impact on the legal analysis of what the Vice Presidents
               authorities were.258 There was simply no legal path to send any votes back to the States on January 6th.
            On the stage at the Presidents rally on the Ellipse, Giuliani repeated a conspiracy
               theory about the crooked Dominion machines . . . deliberately changing votes via
               an algorithm.259 He explained that the 10-day delay in the certification would be used to see the
               machines that are crooked and to find criminality theredemonstrating that his
               repeated assertions of a stolen election were not based on any real proof, or even
               evidence, of actual widespread fraud or criminality.260
            Lets have trial by combat, Giuliani told the crowd.261
            Eastman came to the microphone following Giuliani, and he proceeded to repeat proven
               falsehoods regarding voting machines. He then issued his demand:
            And all we are demanding of Vice President Pence is this afternoon, at 1:00, he let
               the legislatures of the state look into this so we get to the bottom of it, and the
               American people know whether we have control of the direction of our government, or
               not. We no longer live in a self-governing republic if we cant get the answer to
               this question. This is bigger than President Trump. It is a very essence of our republican
               form of government, and it has to be done. And anybody that is not willing to stand
               up to do it, does not deserve to be in the office. It is that simple.262
            Eastman told the assembled crowd that nothing less than the fate of the American Republic
               was in Vice President Pences hands.
            President Trump Directs the Angry Mob at the Capitol to Pressure Vice President Pence.
            When President Trump later took the stage at the Ellipse, he heaped praise on Giuliani
               and Eastman. Hes got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican Party, President
               Trump said of Giuliani. Hes got guts. He fights, he fights.263 President Trump described Eastman as one of the most brilliant lawyers in the country.264 President Trump claimed that Eastman had looked at the election and said, What an
               absolute disgrace that this can be happening to our Constitution.265 Trump falsely argued that the keys to the election were in Vice President Pences
               hands, saying:
            And he [Eastman] looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing.
               I hope so. I hope so. Because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election.
               . . . [T]his is from the number one, or certainly one of the top, Constitutional lawyers
               in our country. He has the absolute right to do it.266
            President Trump repeatedly lied, claiming that several States wanted to overturn former
               Vice President Bidens victory:
            States want to revote. The States got defrauded. They were given false information.
               They voted on it. Now they want to recertify. They want it back. All Vice President
               Pence has to do is send it back to the States to recertify and we become president
               and you are the happiest people.267
            Contrary to the statement President Trump dictated the night before, he all but admitted
               that Vice President Pence did not agree with him:
            And I actually, I just spoke to Mike. I said: Mike, that doesnt take courage. What
               takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage. And then were stuck with a president
               who lost the election by a lot and we have to live with that for four more years.
               Were just not going to let that happen.268
            Later in his speech at the Ellipse, President Trump repeated:
            So, I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope he doesnt listen
               to the RINOs and the stupid people that hes listening to.269
            This was nothing less than a direct appeal to the large angry crowd to pressure Vice
               President Mike Pence to change his settled and oft-repeated conclusion about the limits
               of his authority. It was a shocking attempt to use public opinion to change the Vice
               Presidents position. President Trump launched a mob toward the Capitol with the false
               hope that there was a scenario in which Vice President Pence would do what Eastman
               and President Trump had asked him to do, preventing the transfer of authority to President-elect
               Biden.
            Vice President Pence Fulfilled his Duty on January 6th
             The Vice President Waited to Release His Statement Out of Deference to President
               Trump, Who Was Still Speaking on the Ellipse, and Ultimately Released It Just Minutes
               Before the Joint Session Convened at 1:00 p.m.
            President Trumps speech began late and ran long. He didnt finish speaking until
               approximately 1:10 p.m.after the joint session had begun at 1:00 p.m. Minutes before
               he gaveled the joint session into order, Vice President Mike Pence released the Dear
               Colleague letter he had been working on for days with his staff.270 There was never any ambiguity in Vice President Pences understanding of his role
               and authority, but he wanted to make it clear for everyone to see. This may be the
               most important thing I ever say, Vice President Pence remarked.271
            Today it will be my duty to preside when the Congress convenes in Joint Session to
               count the votes of the Electoral College, and I will do so to the best of my ability,
               Vice President Pence wrote. Vice President Pence explained that his role as presiding
               officer is largely ceremonial and dismissed the arguments that he could take unilateral
               action as contrary to his oath to support and defend the Constitution:
            As a student of history who loves the Constitution and reveres its Framers, I do not
               believe that the Founders of our country intended to invest the Vice President with
               unilateral authority to decide which electoral votes should be counted during the
               Joint Session of Congress, and no Vice President in American history has ever asserted
               such authority. Instead, Vice Presidents presiding over Joint Sessions have uniformly
               followed the Electoral Count Act, conducting the proceedings in an orderly manner
               even where the count resulted in the defeat of their party or their own candidacy.272
            Vice President Pence Adheres to the U.S. Constitution and Complies with the Law Governing
               the Certification of the Presidential Election.
            
                  Vice President Pence during the Joint Session of Congress.
                  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
               
            
            When Vice President Pence gaveled the opening of the joint session, he knew that many
               of his Republican colleagues planned to challenge the elections results based on
               fictitious claims of fraud. The Vice President took steps to ensure that those objections
               adhered to the process set forth in the Electoral Count Act.
            Every four years, on January 6th, vice presidents read from a script that remains
               essentially unchanged. Eastmans theory of the Vice Presidents power and the Trump
               Campaigns scheme to convene and submit the slates of alternate (fake) electors
               motivated Vice President Pence and his advisors to alter the script and to make sure
               they were prepared to respond to any unexpected actions in the joint session.273
            Vice President Pence met with the Senate Parliamentarian on January 3rd to discuss
               the joint session and revised the joint session scripts in consultation with her office.274 Vice President Pence and the Parliamentarian agreed that the Vice Presidents role
               is ministerial.275
            The Vice President knew that the fake slates of electors organized by the Trump Campaign
               were not certified by the States and thus were not valid; he revised the script for
               the joint session to be transparent with the American people about what the Vice President
               wouldand wouldntbe doing during the joint session.276
            One of the most noticeable and important changes to the script was directed specifically
               at thwarting the fake electors scheme. The Vice President knew, informed by the research
               and analysis of his staff, that absent certification of the electoral votes by a State
               authority, the purported alternate slates were not consequential and would play
               no role in the certification of the Presidential election at the joint session.277 The Senate Parliamentarian confirmed this understanding.278
            For decades, Vice Presidents read a similar simple passage concerning the ascertainment
               of the vote. Most recently, Vice President Joseph Biden read this passage aloud in
               2017, as did his most recent predecessors:  
            After ascertainment has been had that the certificates are authentic and correct in
               form, the tellers will count and make a list of the votes cast by the electors of
               the several States.
            On January 6, 2021, Vice President Pence read from a revised script (emphasis added):
            After ascertaining that the certificates are regular in form and authentic, tellers
               will announce the votes cast by the electors for each state, beginning with Alabama,
               which the parliamentarians advise me is the only certificate of vote from that State
               and purports to be a return from the State that has annexed to it a certificate from
               an authority of that State purporting to appoint or ascertain electors.279
            Vice President Pence used the same phrasing for each of the 50 States counted. 
            The Vice Presidents attention to this issue was warranted. Trumps allies pushed
               the fake electors scheme until the very end. Although the Trump Campaign had taken
               pains to direct the fake electors to send their documents to the appropriate authorities
               immediately after voting on December 14th, and though the Senate Parliamentarians
               and Vice Presidents offices had been tracking the receipt by mail of both the legitimate
               and fake certificates, the Trump Campaign apparently became concerned that two States
               documents had not been received before the joint session.280
            On January 4th, the Trump campaign asked Republican Party officials in Wisconsin to
               fly their fake electors documents to Washington, DC.281 Shortly after, staffers for Representative Mike Kelly (RPA) and Senator Ron Johnson
               (RWI) reached out to Vice President Pences Director of Legislative Affairs, apparently
               seeking to deliver the fake certificates.282 A message from Senator Johnsons staffer was sent just minutes before the beginning
               of the joint session. This staffer stated that Senator Johnson wished to hand-deliver
               to the Vice President the fake electors certificates from Michigan and Wisconsin.
               The Vice Presidents aide unambiguously turned him away.283
            Vice President Pence made certain to call for objections as well, in compliance with
               the Electoral Count Act. After the tellers read off the votes cast for each State,
               he asked: Are there any objections to counting the certificate of vote of the state
               . . . that the teller has verified, appears to be regular in form and authentic?284
            For most States, there were no objections. Republicans only rose to object to the
               States that President Trump contested. The first such state was Arizona. At approximately
               1:46 p.m., Congressman Paul Gosar (RAZ) announced his objection.285 I rise for myself and 60 of my colleagues to object to the counting of the electoral
               ballots from Arizona, Gosar said.286
            Vice President Pence then asked: Is the objection in writing and Signed by a senator?
               It was. Senator Ted Cruz endorsed the unfounded challenge to Arizonas electoral votes.287 Because the objections complied with the law, Vice President Pence directed the House
               and Senate to withdraw from the joint session so that the House and Senate could separately
               debate and vote on the objection.288
            When the joint session finally resumed after the attack on the Capitol, the clerks
               announced the results of each chambers vote. Just six U.S. Senators voted for the
               objection to the counting of Arizonas electoral college votes. The objection was
               also defeated in the House, though 121 Republican Members voted to reject Arizonas
               legitimate electors.289 Pennsylvania was the only other State the chambers debated, after the Houses objection
               was signed by Senator Josh Hawley (RMo.).290
            5.4 President Trump Endangers Pences Life, Causing the Vice President, His Family, and
               Staff to Narrowly Miss the Rioters as They Flee the Mob Attacking the Capitol.
            As the debate over Arizonas legitimate electors took place on the Senate floor, the
               Vice Presidents staff could see trouble brewing outside.291 From inside the Vice Presidents ceremonial office, staffers witnessed the crowds
               swelling on the east side of the Capitol. Then, the rioters broke through security
               barriers.292 Jacob told young staffers that they should stand back from the windows, because the
               Vice Presidents office was not the most popular office on the block right now.293
            The Vice President was presiding over the Senate debate on the Arizona objection when
               the noise from the rioters became audible and those in the Senate Chamber realized
               the rioters had entered the Capitol.294 The Secret Service evacuated Vice President Pence from the Senate floor at 2:12 p.m.295 Twelve minutes later, at 2:24 p.m., President Trump tweeted that Vice President Pence
               didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our country and
               our Constitution.296 By that time, the Secret Service had moved the Vice President to his ceremonial office
               across the hall.297 But the situation was spiraling out of controland they wouldnt stay there long.
               As Sarah Matthews, the Deputy White House Press Secretary, later explained: President
               Trumps tweet was like pouring gasoline on the fire.298
            Thirty seconds after President Trumps tweet, rioters who were already inside the
               Capitol opened the East Rotunda door just down the hall. A mere thirty seconds later,
               rioters breached the crypt one floor below the Vice President.
            Though the Vice President refused the Secret Services first two attempts to evacuate
               him from his ceremonial office, the situation quickly became untenable and the Vice
               President was told that the Secret Service could no longer protect him in this office
               in the Capitol that was quickly being overrun.299 Marc Short recalls Tim Giebels, the head of the Vice Presidents Secret Service protective
               detail, saying, At this point, I cant protect you behind these glass doors, and
               so I need to move you.300 This time, the third, the Secret Service was not asking the Vice President to move;
               they were stating the fact that the Vice President must be moved.301 At 2:20 p.m., NSC staff monitoring radio communications reported that the second
               floor of the Capitol and the door to the Senate Chamber ha[ve] now been breached.302
            At 2:25 p.m., the Secret Service rushed the Vice President, his family, and his senior
               staff down a flight of stairs, through a series of hallways and tunnels to a secure
               location.303 The Vice President and his team stayed in that same location for the next four and
               a half hours.
            The angry mob had come within 40 feet of the Vice President as he was evacuated.304 President Trump never called to check on Vice President Pences safety, so Marc Short
               called Mark Meadows to tell him they were safe and secure.305 Short himself became persona non grata with President Trump. The President directed staff to revoke Shorts access to the
               White House after Vice President Pence refused to betray his oath to the Constitution.306 Marc Short never spoke with President Trump again.307
            After arriving at the secure location, the head of the Vice Presidents Secret Service
               detail wanted to move the Vice President away from the Capitol, and staff hurried
               into the waiting vehicles. But the Vice President refused to get in the car.308  As Greg Jacob explained in his testimony to the Select Committee:
            
                  Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration.
               
            
            The Vice President wouldnt get in his car. . . . [H]e was determined that unless
               there was imminent danger to bodily safety that he was not going to abandon the Capitol
               and let the rioters have a victory of having made the Vice President flee or made
               it difficult to restart the process later that day.309
            It was an unprecedented scene in American history. The President of the United States
               had riled up a mob that hunted his own Vice President.
            The Vice Presidents staff came to believe that the theory pushed and sold to the
               public that the Vice President had a role to play in the joint session was a cause
               of the attack on the Capitol. The reason that the Capitol was assaulted was that
               the people who were breaching the Capitol believed that . . . the election [outcome]
               had not yet been determined, and, instead, there was some action that was supposed
               to take place in Washington, D.C., to determine it, Jacob said.310 I do think [the violence] was the result of that position being continuously pushed
               and sold to people who ended up believing that with all their hearts.311 The people had been told that the Vice President had the authority to determine
               the outcome of the election during the joint session.312
            Of course, that was President Trumps and John Eastmans plan all alongto convince
               people that the election had been stolen, and that Vice President Pence could take
               action to change the outcome during the joint session on January 6th.
            Jacob was writing an email to Eastman when the Capitol was breached.313 At 2:14 p.m., just before being evacuated, Jacob hurriedly hit send on his email,
               but not before adding the following: thanks to your bullshit, we are now under siege.314
            
                  Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration.
               
            
            Eastman quickly replied to Jacobs email and, incredibly, blamed Vice President Pence
               and Jacob for the attack. The siege is because YOU and your boss did not do what
               was necessary to allow this to be aired in a public way so the American people can
               see for themselves what happened, Eastman wrote.315 Naturally, Jacob was somewhere between aghast and livid.316 It was ridiculous to blame Vice President Pence for the attack, when he simply
               followed the law.317
            The Joint Session Reconvenes: Lets Get Back to Work.
            The Senate reconvened at approximately 8:06 p.m.318 Congressional leadership and the Vice President insisted on finishing the work of
               the people. Today was a dark day in the history of the United States Capitol, Vice
               President Pence said. But thanks to the swift efforts of U.S. Capitol Police, federal,
               state and local law enforcement, the violence was quelled. The Capitol is secured,
               and the peoples work continues. The Vice President addressed those who wreaked
               havoc in our Capitol today, saying you did not win. Vice President Pence continued:
            Violence never wins. Freedom wins. And this is still the peoples house. And as we
               reconvene in this chamber, the world will again witness the resilience and strength
               of our democracy, for even in the wake of unprecedented violence and vandalism at
               this Capitol, the elected representatives of the people of the United States have
               assembled again on the very same day to support and defend the Constitution of the
               United States.
            Lets get back to work, Vice President Pence concluded.319
            Despite the violence that had unfolded at the Capitol, Eastman kept agitating for
               further delay. At 11:44 p.m. on January 6th, Eastman sent yet another email to Greg
               Jacob.320 In a shockingly tone-deaf manner, Eastman claimed that the Electoral Count Act had
               been violated already, by allowing debate beyond two hours, sohe arguedVice President
               Pence should no longer be concerned that what President Trump and Eastman had pressured
               him to do also would violate it.321 Of course, as Jacob pointed out, the debate couldnt have been completed in two
               hours due to the intervening riot of several hours.322
            Eastman argued that Vice President Pence should adjourn for 10 days to allow the
               legislatures to finish their investigations, as well as to allow a full forensic audit
               of the massive amount of illegal activity that has occurred here.323 Eastman described thisa delay in the certification of the vote and the peaceful
               transfer of power with no legal or historical precedent or support, based on entirely
               specious and disproven allegations of election fraud, following on a violent attack
               on the seat of American democracyas a relatively minor violation.324
            Vice President Pence later described Eastmans email as rubber room stuff, meaning
               it was certifiably crazy.325
            5.5 Aftermath of the Attack.
            Eastman called Herschmann on January 7th to discuss litigation on behalf of the Trump
               Campaign in Georgia.326 This gave Herschmann another opportunity to lay into Eastman. [Are] you out of your
               Fing mind? Herschmann asked. I only want to hear two words coming out of your mouth
               from now on: orderly transition. Herschmann said. After some berating, Eastman repeated
               after Herschmann: Orderly transition. Now Im going to give you the best free legal
               advice youre ever getting in your life, Herschmann said. Get a great Fing criminal
               defense lawyer, youre going to need it.327 Days afterward, Eastman sent an email to Giuliani, making a request that tacitly
               acknowledged just how much trouble he was in: Ive decided that I should be on the
               pardon list, if that is still in the works.328
            Vice President Pence and his team never bowed to President Trumps relentless pressure.
               They began January 6, 2021, with a prayer. The attack on the U.S. Capitol delayed
               the peaceful transfer of power. The joint session did not end until early in the morning
               on January 7th.
             At 3:50 a.m. that morning, Short texted Vice President Pence a passage from Second
               Timothy, chapter 4, verse 7: I fought the good fight. I finished the race. I have
               kept the faith.329
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 10-11.
               2.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 10-11.
               3.  See, e.g., Ivan E. Raiklin (Former Green Beret Commander) (@Raiklin), Twitter, Dec. 22, 2020, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201222232155/https://twitter.com/Raiklin/status/1341520753984942081 (archived) (America, @VP @Mike_Pence MUST do this, tomorrow!); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 23, 2020 7:40:30 p.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201224033528/http://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump (archived).
               4.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 95, ([T]he Vice President mostly asked
                  a series of questions in that meeting of Mr. Eastman), 130 (Q: Did John Eastman
                  ever admit, as far as you know, in front of the President that his proposal would
                  violate the Electoral Count Act? A: I believe he did on the 4th. Q: Okay. And
                  can you tell us what the Presidents reaction was? A: A I cant.); Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107 (Greg Jacob memo to Vice
                  President Pence, titled Analysis of Professor Eastmans Proposals).
               5.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 96 (Eastman acknowledging that the legal
                  basis for his proposed paths was the same and, as recounted by Greg Jacob, [y]ou
                  couldnt get there either way unless you ... set aside a number of the positions
                  of the Electoral Count Act).
               6.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 26-27 (But just to pick up on that,
                  Mr. Short, was it your impression that the Vice President had directly conveyed his
                  position on these issues to the President, not just to the world through a Dear Colleague
                  Letter, but directly to President Trump? A: Many times. Q: And had been consistent
                  in conveying his position to the President? A: Very consistent.).
               7.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 18-20.
               8.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (U.S. Secret Service Production), CTRL0000092958 (January
                  6, 2021, message at 10:39 a.m. ET).
               9.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (US Secret Service Production), CTRL0000092978 (January
                  6, 2021, message at 10:43 a.m. ET).
               10.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               11.   Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               12.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               13.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106192450/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346900434540240897 (archived).
               14.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Rebecca Shabad, Noose Appears Near Capitol; Protesters Seen Carrying Confederate Flags, NBC News, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/live-blog/electoral-college-certification-updates-n1252864/ncrd1253129#blogHeader.
               15.  See Quint Forgey, Almost No Idea More Un-American: Pence Breaks with Trump on Jan. 6, Politico, (June 25, 2021), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2021/06/25/pence-trump-jan-6-496237.
               16.  Statement by Donald J. Trump, 45th President of the United States of America, Jan.
                  30, 2022, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20220131171840/https://www.donaldjtrump.com/news/news-8nkdvatd7g1481  (archived) (If the Vice President (Mike Pence) had absolutely no right to change the Presidential Election results in the Senate, despite fraud and many
                  other irregularities, how come the Democrats and RINO Republicans, like Wacky Susan
                  Collins, are desperately trying to pass legislation that will not allow the Vice President
                  to change the results of the election? Actually, what they are saying, is that Mike
                  Pence did have the right to change the outcome, and they now want to take that right
                  away. Unfortunately, he didnt exercise that power, he could have overturned the Election!) (emphasis added).
               17.  Mike Allen, Exclusive Audio: Trump Defends Threats to Hang Pence, Axios, (Nov. 12, 2021), available at available at https://www.axios.com/2021/11/12/trump-hang-mike-pence-january-6-audio (Jonathan Karl: Were you worried about him during that siege? Were you worried
                  about his safety? Trump: No, I thought he was well-rotected, and I had heard that he was in good shape. No. Because I had heard he was in very
                  good shape. But, but, no, I think Karl: Because you heard those chantsthat was terrible. I mean Trump: He could havewell, the people were very angry. Karl: They were saying hang Mike Pence. Trump: Because its common sense, Jon. Its common sense that youre supposed to protect. How can youif you know a vote is fraudulent, right?how can you pass on a fraudulent vote to Congress? How can you do that?) (emphasis
                  added).
               18.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 44, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               19.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 36, 40, 44, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM) (Based
                  on the evidence, the Court finds that it is more likely than not that President Trump
                  and Eastman dishonestly conspired to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January
                  6, 2021.).
               20.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 44, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               21.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708. This
                  document was ordered to be produced to the Select Committee by Judge Carter over Eastmans
                  assertion of attorney-client privilege and upon a finding that the crime-fraud exception
                  to the attorney-client privilege applied. Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January
                  4-7, 2021 at 41-42, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               22.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708.
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708.
               24.  Neither Eastman nor Chesebro provided substantive answers in response to the Select
                  Committees questions about the development of this strategy. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John Eastman, (Dec. 9, 2021); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kenneth Chesebro, (Oct. 25,
                  2022). It is thus difficult to determine who first suggested this concept. Evidence
                  obtained by the Select Committee suggests that key players like Eastman, Giuliani,
                  and Epshteyn were starting to discuss the Vice Presidents role at the joint session
                  in late November or early December. See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 7173 (discussing
                  conversations involving Mark Meadows, Rudolph Giulianis legal team, and Members of
                  Congress in late November or early December); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University
                  Production), Chapman023534 (December 5, 2020 email from John Eastman remarking that
                  folks at the top of the chain of command on this ... are now aware of the issues).
                  See also Michael Wolff, Landslide: The Final Days of the Trump Presidency (New York: Henry Holt and Company, 2021), p. 135 (describing post-Thanksgiving outreach from Boris Epshteyn to the White House
                  regarding the Vice President theory). 
               25.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 41-42, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM) (Because
                  the memo likely furthered the crimes of obstruction of an official proceeding and
                  conspiracy to defraud the United States, it is subject to the crime-fraud exception
                  and the Court ORDERS it to be disclosed.).
               26.  The Select Committees investigation found that Eastman was communicating about the
                  joint session with Kenneth Chesebro in December 2020.   See e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053460,
                  Chapman053475 (December 23, 2020, emails between John Eastman, Kenneth Chesebro, and
                  Boris Epshteyn regarding procedural proposals for joint session).
               27.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976.
                  This memo was originally obtained by the Washington Posts Bob Woodward and Robert Costa and subsequently published by CNN. READ: Trump Lawyers
                  Memo on Six-Step Plan for Pence to Overturn the Election, CNN, (Sept. 21, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/09/21/politics/read-eastman-memo/index.html. 
               28.  Under the Constitution, if no candidate receives a majority of electoral college
                  votes, this triggers a process where the House of Representatives decides the president.
                  When that happens, each State gets one vote for President, chosen by the Representatives
                  from that state. The candidate who receives a majority of the 50 State votes becomes
                  the president. At the time, there were more Republicans than Democrats in 26 of the
                  50 State House delegations, leading Eastman to predict that President Trump [would
                  be] re-elected under that scenario. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976.
               29.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976.
                  Note that Eastman has acknowledged the authenticity of a publicly disclosed version
                  of this document, describing it as a preliminary, incomplete draft of the legal
                  memo [he] wrote in January. John C. Eastman, Trying to Prevent Illegal Conduct from
                  Deciding an Election Is Not Endorsing a Coup, American Greatness, (Sept. 30, 2021), available at https://amgreatness.com/2021/09/30/trying-to-prevent-illegal-conduct-from-deciding-an-election-is-not-endorsing-a-coup/ (linking to two-page document titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL, January 6 scenario,
                  available at http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2021/images/09/20/eastman.memo.pdf).
               30.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053561
                  (December 23, 2020 email from John Eastman to Molly Michael).
               31.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Verizon Production, July 11, 2022) (Dec. 23, 2020 cellular
                  data records from John Eastman). The morning that Eastman began preparing the memo,
                  he received a call from Boris Epshteyn at 8:58 am. Eleven minutes later, Eastman called
                  Chesebro, and the two spoke for over 41 minutes. Eastman continued to trade calls
                  with Epshteyn and Chesebro throughout the day. See  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Verizon Production, July 11, 2022) (December 23, 2020,
                  phone records for John Eastman).
               32.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976, p. 2
                  (Memo regarding January 6 scenario).
               33.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003226.
               34.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003228. Note
                  that this letter refers to, and purports to supplement, the recommendations of what
                  Eastman described in his correspondence with Mr. Colbert as a major war game simulation
                  that he claimedon October 24, 2020was already before the President and his team. Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman
                  University Production), Chapman031983. The war game exercise in which Eastman participated
                  is reflected in a report issued by the Claremont Institute and the Texas Public Policy
                  Foundation. 79 Days Report, (Oct. 20, 2020), available at https://www.texaspolicy.com/79-days-to-inauguration-taskforce-report/.
               35.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003228 (emphasis
                  added).
               36.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman031983.
               37.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman023534.
               38.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman031983.
               39.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (memo
                  regarding January 6 scenarios).
               40.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (memo
                  regarding January 6 scenarios).
               41.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052966 (December
                  23, 2020, email from Kenneth Chesebro).
               42.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (memo
                  regarding January 6 scenarios).
               43.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (memo
                  regarding January 6 scenarios).
               44.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (memo
                  regarding January 6). 
               45.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 26; see also id., at 36-377 (stating that he did not understand Eastmans statement to be suggesting
                  that violence would be justified to keep President Trump in office).
               46.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 28. 
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 26, 28-29. 
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 29.  
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 29.  
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 29.
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 157.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 142, 152.
               53.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 079P-R0000731. Neither
                  this memo, nor a December 8, 2020, memo that followed, reflects the full advice that
                  Greg Jacob ultimately gave to the Vice President regarding the joint session. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 1011, 32. The OVP Legal Staff memo, dated October 26, 2020, is titled The Unconstitutionality
                  of the Electoral Count Act. This memo adopts certain legal academics criticism of
                  the Electoral Count Act and introduces several concepts that would later be cited
                  by proponents of the theory of an expansive view of the Vice Presidents power. Greg
                  Jacobs legal memo to the Vice President, dated December 8, 2020, notes that the Electoral
                  Count Act prescribes the process for counting electoral votes to the extent it is
                  constitutional and seems to allow for the possibility of the Vice President assert[ing]
                  a constitutional privilege. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production),
                  079P-R0000785. Through his extensive research and analysis, Greg Jacobs understanding
                  developed both as to the legal and historical precedent for the joint session and
                  ultimately led him to the unavoidable conclusions that, one, the Electoral Count Act
                  governed the joint session and, two, its procedures had never been deviated from since
                  it was passed.  
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob Deposition, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 1113, 2526 (noting that Marc Short didnt name names of the people he was concerned would
                  encourage the President to prematurely declare victory).
               55.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 079VP-R000011579_0001,
                  079VP-R000011579_0002 (November 3, 2020, Greg Jacob memo to Marc Short, titled Electoral
                  Vote Count). The Election Day memo identifies the 12th Amendment and the Electoral
                  Count Act as the relevant legal framework, but leaves open whether it is the Vice
                  President, or Congress, that has ultimate constitutional authority to decide electoral
                  vote disputes. It also represents an incomplete understanding of the factual precedents,
                  describing then-Vice President Nixons conduct in January 1961 as single-handedly
                  resolv[ing] a dispute over competing slates of electors that were submitted by the
                  State of Hawaii. (In fact, after additional research Jacob concluded the opposite
                  was true.) As addressed elsewhere in this chapter, this memo does not reflect Greg
                  Jacobs full legal analysis or ultimate advice, nor the Vice Presidents conclusion,
                  about the authority of the Vice President at the joint session. 
               56.  Daniel Villarreal, Lincoln Project Ad Tells Trump That Pence Will Put the Nail
                  in Your Political Coffin, Newsweek, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://www.newsweek.com/lincolnproject-ad-tells-trump-that-pence-will-put-nail-your-political-coffin-1553331.
               57. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 13; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Jun. 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 13536 (noting the ad buy was limited to D.C. and Palm Beach).
               58.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 079P-R0000785_0001, 079P-R0000785_0002,
                  079P-R0000785_0003, 079P-R0000785_0004 (December 8, 2020, Greg Jacob memo to Vice
                  President Pence, titled January 6 Process for Electoral Vote Count); see also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 32. This December 8, 2020, memo reflects
                  Jacobs more detailed understanding of the mechanics of modern practice under the
                  Electoral Count Act, including the process by which the House and Senate separate
                  to debate a member of the Houses objection if it is signed by a Senator, but not
                  the full analysis of the precedent that Jacob would ultimately do before January 6,
                  2021.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 102. 
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 33, 102.
               61.  U.S. Const. art. II,  1, cl 3; U.S. Const., Amend. XII.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               63.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 1416.
               64.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 1416.  
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. In testimony given at a Select Committee hearing, Judge Luttig disagreed with Jacobs characterization of the sentence carried through from the
                  Constitution to the 12th Amendment, describing it instead as pristine[ly] clear, but the witnesses were in agreement that there was no basis in the Constitution
                  or laws of the United States at all for the theory espoused by Mr. Eastman. Id.; see Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. (I am in complete agreement with Judge Luttig; it is unambiguous that the Vice President does not have the authority to reject
                  electors.). Note that Vice President Pence apparently agreed with Jacob regarding
                  the clarity of the Constitutional language, as Jacob testified that he joked, I cant
                  wait to go to heaven and meet the Framers and tell them, The work that you did in
                  putting together our Constitution is a work of genius. Thank you. It was divinely
                  inspired. There is one sentence that I would like to talk to you a little bit about.
                  Id.
               66.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               67.  Complaint, Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 510 F. Supp. 3d 435, (No. 6:20-cv-0660), (E.D. Tex. Dec. 27, 2020), ECF No. 1.
               68.  Mike Pence, So Help Me God (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2022), p. 443.
               69.  Complaint, Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 510 F. Supp. 3d 435, (No. 6:20-cv-0660), (E.D. Tex. Dec. 27, 2020), ECF No. 1.
               70.  Complaint, Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 510 F. Supp. 3d 435, (No. 6:20-cv-0660), (E.D. Tex. Dec. 27, 2020), ECF No. 1.
               71. Complaint, Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 510 F. Supp. 3d 435, (No. 6:20-cv-0660), (E.D. Tex. Dec. 27, 2020), ECF No. 1.
               72.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman055337 (December
                  22, 2020, John Eastman email to William Olson, Larry Joseph, Mark Martin, Kurt Olson,
                  Kris Kobach, Phillip Jauregui, Pat McSweeney, and Don Brown, titled Re: Draft Complaint).
               73.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 6, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               74.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman055337 (December
                  22, 2020, William Olson email to Larry Joseph, Mark Martin, Kurt Olson, Kris Kobach,
                  John Eastman, Phillip Jauregui, Pat McSweeney, and Don Brown, titled Re: Draft Complaint).
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Russell Rusty Bowers, (June 19, 2022), pp. 4245; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003584, (January
                  4, 2021, emails between John Eastman and Andrew Pappas, coordinating the call between
                  Eastman and Speaker Bowers). Eastman also asked Speaker Bowers to sign a letter drafted
                  by Arizona Rep. Mark Finchem directed to Vice President Pence asking him not to certify
                  the election on January 6th; Bowers refused. Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Russell Rusty
                  Bowers, (June 19, 2022), at p. 4546.
               76.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Russell Rusty Bowers, (June 19, 2022), at p. 46. Speaker
                  Bowers had already addressed publicly both the pressure he was receiving to overturn
                  the result of the election as well as his firm belief that doing so would violate
                  his oath of office. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Rusty Bowers Production), CTRL0000062389
                  (Nov. 18, 2020, Dear Colleague letter with attached Post-Election Frequently Asked
                  Questions), Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Rusty Bowers Production), CTRL0000071098_00069
                  (December 4, 2020, Press Release titled Speaker Bowers Addresses Calls for the Legislature
                  to Overturn 2020 Certified Election Results).
               77.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Russell Rusty Bowers, (June 19, 2022), at p. 46. Speaker
                  Bowers also received a call on the morning of January 6th from Representative Andy
                  Biggs in which Rep. Biggs asked Speaker Bowers to sign a letter being sent by other
                  Arizona legislators and/or to support decertification of Arizonas electors; Speaker
                  Bowers again refused. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess.,  (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               78.  Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 510 F. Supp. 3d 435, 443 (E.D. Tx. 2021).
               79.  Gohmert et al. v. Pence, 141 S. Ct. 972 (2021).
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), pp. 13234.
               81.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (John McEntee Production), McEntee0001 (document titled
                  JEFFERSON USED HIS POSITION AS VP TO WIN). 
               82.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000236-000238 (John
                  McEntee note and drafted analysis, titled PENCE CAN LET THE STATES DECIDE). Note that the Select Committee received both documents from the National Archives
                  in a format consistent with the documents having been torn apart and taped back together.
               83.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000236-237 (John McEntee
                  note and drafted analysis, titled PENCE CAN LET THE STATES DECIDE).
               84.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000237; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), p. 147.
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), pp. 147-48.
               86.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Short production), J6C-TSM-0001, J6C-TSM-0002. Note
                  that the file name of the document (MEMO_POTUS_January6VPAction.pdf) is visible
                  in an email in which Marc Short forwards to Greg Jacob the memo received from Mark
                  Meadows.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000033, VP-R0000034.
               87.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000034.
               88.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jenna Ellis Production), J.007206Ellis.
               89.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jenna Ellis Production), J.007472Ellis.
               90.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jenna Ellis Production), CTRL0000916457_00002, (January
                  5, 2021, memo from Jenna Ellis to Jay Sekulow). This document was published by Politico on December 10, 2021. Betsy Woodruff Swan and Kyle Cheney, Trump Campaign Lawyer
                  Authored 2 Memos Claiming Pence Could Halt Bidens Victory, Politico, (Dec. 10, 2021), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2021/12/10/trump-lawyer-pence-biden-524088. In response to a Select Committee subpoena, Ellis produced a privilege log reflecting
                  several communications from Ellis to Sekulow on January 5 and 6, 2021, each of which was described as [e]mail discussion of internal
                  legal strategy for possible pending litigation.
               91.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jenna Ellis Production), CTRL0000916457_00002 (January
                  5, 2021, memo from Ellis to Jay Sekulow).
               92.  Politico (@politico), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 2:31 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/politico/status/1346539955724681221 (I actually dont think thats what the Constitution has in mind, Jay Sekulow, the chief counsel of the American Center for Law &amp; Justice, says about the possibility
                  of Pence rejecting the Electoral College results).
               93.  Politico (@politico), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 2:31 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/politico/status/1346539955724681221. 
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 208.
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 208.
               96.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 68; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed of Matt Morgan, (Apr.
                  25, 2022), pp. 19, 113. Matt Morgan was at the time a lawyer with Elections, LLC serving
                  as General Counsel of the Trump Campaign and also acting as counsel to Vice President
                  Pences leadership PAC.
               97.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 117, 125 (I had no
                  question about what he was going to do on January 6th.).
               98.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 68. See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), p. 179 (stating that the reasons why
                  Vice President Pence wanted to issue a public statement included the public discourse,
                  letters from State legislators, and reporting about communications between the President
                  and Vice President).
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 114, 116.
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 166-68 (Im not aware of any evidence
                  that the campaign had, and Im not aware of any evidence the campaign shared with
                  our office that would have again provided specific evidence of theft or fraud that
                  would have had a material change in any of the States.).
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matt Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 9900; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 36-37.
               102.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 079P-R0000745; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 38. Following the meeting on January
                  2, 2021, Greg Jacob shared the following memo with Matt Morgan. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack,
                  (Matt Morgan Production), AGSC16-000103.
               103.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 61-62.
               104.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Matt Morgan Production), AGSC16-000066; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,  Transcribed Interview
                  of Matt Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 74 (My view, for an electoral count vote to count,
                  you need a certificate of ascertainment and then the vote of the elector itself, that
                  the vote of an elector without a certificate of ascertainment would not be validly
                  submitted.).
               105.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 079P-R0000698; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production),00131; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris
                  Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), p. 128 (stating that as of the date of this memo, January
                  2, 2021, there were no open questions at that point that Im aware of.).
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 52.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 68-69. Jacob shared a draft version
                  of the statement with Matt Morgan. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matt Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 119-120. This draft version
                  clearly set forth Vice President Pences position, I Preside, Congress Decides.
                  The draft statement read: I cannot believe that the Framers, who above all else feared
                  the concentrated power of a Caesar, intended to appoint a single individual, often
                  directly interested in the outcome, to unilaterally determine the validity of electoral
                  votes. In the wrong hands, such a power would be the undoing of the Republic. Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Matt Morgan Production), AGSC16-000149.
               108.  Philip Rucker, Josh Dawsey, Growing Number of Trump Loyalists in the Senate Vow to Challenge Bidens Victory,
                  Washington Post, (Jan. 2, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/senators-challenge-election/2021/01/02/81a4e5c4-4c7d-11eb-a9d9-1e3ec4a928b9_story.html.
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 16668.
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 165-66.
               111.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  7 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               112.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  3 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               113.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  6 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               114.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  7 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               115.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  7 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               116.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  7 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               117.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  8 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               118.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082311, p.
                  7 (January 2, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               119.  Andrew Kaczynski, Em Steck, Trump Lawyer John Eastman Said Courage and the Spine Would Help Pence Send Election
                  to the House in Comments before January 6, CNN, (Oct. 30, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/30/politics/kfile-john-eastman-said-pence-could-throw-election-to-house/index.html.
               120.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923171 (January 3, 2021, 6-page
                  Eastman memo). Note that Eastman publicly disclosed this document, describing it as
                  the final version of [his] memo and embedding it with a filename Jan 3 Memo on
                  Jan 6 Scenario. John C. Eastman, Trying to Prevent Illegal Conduct From Deciding
                  an Election Is Not Endorsing a Coup, American Greatness, (Sept. 30, 2021), available at https://amgreatness.com/2021/09/30/trying-to-prevent-illegal-conduct-from-deciding-an-election-is-not-endorsing-a-coup/. Eastman has also tried to rewrite history with regard to this memo, arguing that
                  it noted that Congress has the power to make the final determination regarding electoral
                  votes, even though the memo concludes, [t]he fact is that the Constitution assigns
                  this power to the Vice President as the ultimate arbiter. We should take all of our
                  actions with that in mind. See John McCormack, John Eastman vs. the Eastman Memo, National Review, (Oct. 22, 2021), available at https://www.nationalreview.com/2021/10/john-eastman-vs-the-eastman-memo (emphasis added).
               121.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source) CTRL0000923171, pp. 4-5 (January 3, 2021, 6-page Eastman memo) .
               122.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source) CTRL0000923171, (January 3, 2021, 6-page Eastman memo) (describing the majority of
                  the TRUMP WINS scenarios as resulting from the Vice President unilaterally determining
                  which electoral slate from a State is valid, after asserting that the authority
                  to make that determination under the 12th Amendment ... is his alone (and anything in the Electoral Count Act to the contrary
                  is therefore unconstitutional).).
               123.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source) CTRL0000923171, (January 3, 2021, 6-page
                  Eastman memo) p. 5.
               124.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source) CTRL0000923171, (January 3, 2021, 6-page
                  Eastman memo) p. 2; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976
                  (December 23, 2020, 2-page Eastman memo).
               125.  John C. Eastman, Constitutional Statesmanship, Claremont Review of Books, (Fall
                  2021) available at https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/constitutional-statesmanship/.
               126.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman043035 (December
                  19, 2020, email from John Eastman to Bruce Colbert, re: Latest draft). It is not clear
                  what relationship or connection existed between John Eastman and Bruce Colbert before
                  the election; documents produced to the Select Committee demonstrate that Eastman
                  and Mr. Colbert exchanged dozens of emails during the time period covered by the Select
                  Committees subpoena to Chapman University (November 3, 2020, to January 20, 2021).
                  
               127.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Jun. 16, 2022), available at [https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.] (Judge Luttig testifying, [T]here was no support whatsoever in either the Constitution of the
                  United States nor the laws of the United States for the Vice President, frankly, ever
                  to count alternative electoral slates from the States that had not been officially
                  certified by the designated State official in the Electoral Count Act of 1887.).
               128.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053475, (December
                  23, 2020, email from John Eastman to Boris Epshteyn and Kenneth Chesebro, FW: Draft
                  2, with edits); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053476
                  (December 23, 2020, 2-page Eastman memo).
               129.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman063984
                  (January 10, 2021, email from John Eastman to Valerie Moon, re: Tell us in laymans
                  language, what the heck happened with the dual electors? Please?). This email appears
                  to be a response by Eastman to an unsolicited email from a member of the public.
               130.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman063984 (January
                  10, 2021, email from John Eastman to Valerie Moon, re: Tell us in laymans language,
                  what the heck happened with the dual electors? Please?).
               131.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source) CTRL0000923171, p. 5 (January 3, 2021,
                  6-page Eastman memo). 
               132.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923171, p. 5 (January 3, 2021, 6-page Eastman memo).
               133.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923171, p. 5 (January 3, 2021,
                  6-page Eastman memo).
               134.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000923171, p. 5 (January 3, 2021,
                  6-page Eastman memo).
               135.  The pressure placed on the Vice President by the President was a multiweek campaign
                  that reached a crescendo in the days before January 6th. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb.
                  1, 2022), p. 33. The Vice Presidents Chief of Staff, Marc Short, saw the separation
                  between the President and the Vice President building for weeks. Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 3435, 216-17.
               136.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp.
                  191, 204-05; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p.
                  82; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               137.  Select Committee to Investigate the January  6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 191, 204-05.
               138.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 49 (regarding
                  the declaration of martial law), 56 (regarding the appointment of Sidney Powell as
                  special counsel), 5859, 66 (regarding the seizure of voting machines), 110 (regarding
                  the elevation of Jeff Clark to Acting Attorney General).
               139.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Patrick Philbin, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 5. Philbin told the Select
                  Committee that in the end he decided not to resign out of a sense of obligation: All
                  of the pilots cant jump off the plane because theres still a lot of passengers in
                  the back and we need to land the plane.
               140.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Patrick Philbin, (Apr. 13, 2022).
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 79 (My
                  view was that the Vice President didnt have the legal authority to do anything except
                  what he did.), 81 (testifying that his views on the role of the Vice President were
                  extremely aligned with the Vice Presidents staff), 88 (I thought that the Vice
                  President did not have the authority to do what was being suggested under a proper
                  reading of the law.); See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Patrick Philbin, (Apr. 13, 2022).
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 8586.
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 85.
               144.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 94 (testifying
                  that the privileged interaction that resulted in his exclusion from the meeting took
                  place in the presence of Meadows and Eastman, but before the Vice President, Short,
                  and Jacob arrived).
               145.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 8586
                  (I did walk to that meeting and I did go into the Oval Office with the idea of attending
                  that meeting, and then I ultimately did not attend the meeting.).
               146.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 86,
                  94. Cipollone refused to describe further why he didnt attend the meeting[t]he
                  reasons for that are privilegedand would not tell the Select Committee whether he
                  voluntarily decided not to attend or was told not to.
               147.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Antony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 85,
                  88.
               148.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 8889 ([A]t the meeting on the 4th,
                  Eastman expressed the view that both paths were legally viable.).
               149.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               150.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 89. See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 90 (I think that was threaded throughout,
                  that, again, both were legally viable but that the preferred course would be to send
                  it back to the States.), 91 (... he [Eastman] thought that the more prudent course
                  was a procedural send it back to the States, rather than reject electors.), 93 (On
                  the 4th, I think that he said that both were legally viable options. But I do think
                  that he said that he was not saying that that was the one that the Vice President
                  should do.).
               151.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 89, 91 ([H]e thought that the more
                  prudent course was a procedural send it back to the states, rather than reject electors),
                  96 ([M]y impression was he was thinking more acceptance [by] the country of the action
                  taken). See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearings on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               152.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 96; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 95, 130 (Q: Did John Eastman ever admit,
                  as far as you know, in front of the President that his proposal would violate the
                  Electoral Count Act? A: I believe he did on the 4th. Q: Okay. And can you tell
                  us what the Presidents reaction was? A: A I cant.); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107 (Greg Jacob writing after the Oval Office
                  meeting on January 4th, Professor Eastman acknowledges that his proposal violates
                  several provisions of statutory law.).
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 20203.
               155.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107. Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 127.
               156.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107 (Professor
                  Eastman acknowledges that his proposal violates several provisions of statutory law);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp.
                  12728.
               157.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107.
               158.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107. Jacob notes
                  in his memo that Eastmans proposal also contradicted the opinion authored by Republican
                  Supreme Court Justice Joseph Bradley as the decided vote on the Electoral Commission
                  of 1877. Whereas Eastman wanted the Vice President to refer the manufactured dispute
                  over slates of electors back to the State legislatures, Justice Bradley wrote that
                  the President of the Senate (the Vice President) is not invested with any authority
                  for making any investigation outside of the joint meeting of the two Houses. 
               159.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107 ([Professor
                  Eastman] stated that in his view, the imprimatur of approval by a State legislature
                  is important to the legitimacy of counting any slate of electors other than the one
                  initially certified by the States executive.).
               160.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107.
               161.  When pressed by Eric Herschmann on whether states really wanted to certify an alternate
                  slate, and why they hadnt taken steps to do so on their own, Eastman had no explanation
                  or response. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 2829.
               162.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107 (Professor
                  Eastman does not recommend that the Vice President assert that he has the authority
                  unilaterally to decide which of the competing slates of electors should be counted);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p.
                  127.
               163.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107.
               164.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000085.
               165.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000182, VP-R0000183,
                  VP-R0000180, VP-R0000181; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 10203 ([I]n
                  fact, there were no materials, new materials that were actually presented to me by
                  Mr. Eastman ... I was open to receiving anything that anybody wanted to give me
                  that might bear on that question ... But I also correctly was of the view that I
                  had already looked at everything and that we knew [] where we stood.).
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 95.
               167.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://perma.cc/VAD2-TWVQ (Hello, Georgia, by the way. Theres no way we lost Georgia. Theres no way. That
                  was a rigged election, but were still fighting it and youll see whats going to
                  happen. Well talk about it.).
               168.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://perma.cc/VAD2-TWVQ. 
               169.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://perma.cc/VAD2-TWVQ. 
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 96, 105; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan.
                  26, 2022), p. 201; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000182.
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short Deposition (Jan. 26, 2022) p. 201; see also, Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Greg Jacob (Feb. 1, 2022) pp. 92, 94, 106; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Jun. 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               172.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Greg Jacobs Production), CTRL0000070421, p. 1 (Jan.
                  5, 2021, Greg Jacob handwritten notes).
               173.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 92 (He, again, came into the meeting
                  saying, What Im here to ask you to do is to reject the electors.).
               174.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 9395. Eastman acknowledged to Jacob
                  that the previous days discussions had included the send it back to the states
                  path, but he reaffirmed that the ask on the morning of January 5th was to reject electors
                  outright. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 105; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at  https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th (So on the 4th, that had been the path that he had said, I am not recommending
                  that you do that, but on the 5th, he came in and expressly requested that.).
               175.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 24-25.
               176.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 26-27.
               177.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 24.
               178.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 24.
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp.
                  107, 117.
               180.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 10708. Jacob debated with Eastman all
                  of the historical examples, concluding that in the 130 years of practice the Electoral
                  Count Act had been followed every single time; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp.
                  109-10.
               181.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 108. What Jacob found when he looked
                  into the Nixon example is that first, there were no competing slates of electors from
                  Hawaii. In fact, a Republican slate was originally certified by the outgoing Governor,
                  but after a judicially ordered recount, it was clear that the Democratic candidate
                  had won, and the incoming Governor certified a new slate consistent with the outcome
                  of the election after the recount. Then-Vice President Nixon, when he arrived at Hawaii
                  in the joint session, magnanimously acknowledged that it was clear that Hawaiis
                  votes for Kennedy were the correct votes and called for objections (of which there
                  were none). This precedent was therefore an example of the Vice President complying
                  with the Electoral Count Acts procedures regarding objections to electors. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 15-16.
               182.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 110.
               183.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 110 ([H]e ultimately acknowledged that
                  none of [the Justices] would actually back this position when you took into account
                  the fact that what you have is a mildly ambiguous [constitutional provision], a nonsensical
                  result that has all kinds of terrible policy implications, and uniform historical
                  practice against it). 
               184.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 110.
               185.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 111. Jacob told the Select Committee
                  he did not know to whom Eastman was referring when he indicated they would be disappointed
                  that Vice President Pence had not been convinced it was appropriate to reject electors.
               186.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 9596, 21011.
               187.  J. Michael Luttig (@judgeluttig), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 9:53 a.m. ET, et seq., available at https://twitter.com/judgeluttig/status/1346469787329646592 (The only responsibility and power of the Vice President under the Constitution
                  is to faithfully count the electoral college votes as they have been cast,). 
               188.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 151-52.
               189.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 151-52.
               190.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 152, 209; see also Tom Hamburger, Josh Dawsey, and Jacqueline Alemany, Jan. 6 Panel Grapples with How to Secure Testimony from Lawmakers, Pence, Washington Post, (Jan. 15, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/01/15/jan-6-subpoenas-committee (I did not notice any hesitation on his part, Quayle said of his conversation
                  with Pence. I interpreted his questions as looking for confirmation that what he
                  was going to do was right and that he had no flexibility. Thats the way I read it.
                  Given the pressure he was under, I thought it was perfectly normal, very smart on
                  his part to call me.).
               191.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 157.
               192.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 158; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan.
                  26, 2022), pp. 215-17.
               193.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 157-58.
               194.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 215.
               195.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 216.
               196.  Bob Woodward and Robert Costa, Peril, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 229; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26,
                  2022), pp. 215-16.
               197.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 160.
               198.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 220-22; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb.
                  1, 2022), pp. 116, 120. Note that Marc Short recalled that it was this afternoon phone
                  call that led to the in-person meeting between Eastman and Jacob, however, documents
                  received by the Select Committee and Jacobs more detailed recollection of his interactions
                  with Eastman establishes that the in-person meeting occurred in the morning of January
                  5, 2021.
               199.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. (describing the message on this phone call between the Vice President and President
                  Trump with Eastmans participation as, Well, we hear you loud and clear, you are
                  not going to reject. But remember last night, I said that there was this more prudent
                  course where you could just send it back to the States? Would you be willing to do
                  that[?]); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 96-97, 120. 
               200.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 121.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 121-22 (describing calls from Eastman
                  and at least one other lawyer (likely either Kurt Olsen or Bill Olson)).
               202.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 122-23.
               203.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 123 (recounting Eastmans argument that
                  election fraud was resulting in the Constitution being shredded across all these
                  different states and comparing it to the Civil War).
               204.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 122-24.
               205.  Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni, Pence Said to Have Told Trump He Lacks Power to Change Election Result, New York Times, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106003845/https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/05/us/politics/pence-trump-election-results.html. The same Times reporters had also published on January 4th an article again accurately reporting
                  that President Trump had directly pressed Mr. Pence to find an alternative to certifying
                  Mr. Bidens win. Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman, Pences Choice: Side with the Constitution or His Boss, New York Times, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/04/us/politics/pence-trump.html.
               206.  Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni, Pence Said to Have Told Trump He Lacks Power to Change Election Result, New York Times, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/05/us/politics/pence-trump-election-results.html.
               207.  Maggie Haberman and Anne Karni, Pence Said to Have Told Trump He Lacks Power to Change Election Result, New York Times, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106003845/https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/05/us/politics/pence-trump-election-results.html (archived version showing original publication date of Jan. 5, 2021, at 7:36 p.m.
                  ET).
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 169-70.
               209.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007439, (CTRL0000082597)
                  (January 5, 2021, White House Presidential call log).
               210.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007439, (CTRL0000082597)
                  (January 5, 2021, White House Presidential call log).
               211.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007439, (CTRL0000082597)
                  (January 5, 2021, White House Presidential call log).
               212.  Meredith Lee (@meredithllee), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 9:58 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/meredithllee/status/1346652403605647367?lang=en (emphasis added); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 175 ([T]ypically on these, I might have a couple of wording suggestions ... ultimately the way this came out was the way he wanted [it] to.); see id at 174-76.
               213.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 224; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson,
                  (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 184-85.
               214.  Meredith Lee (@meredithllee), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 9:58 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/meredithllee/status/1346652403605647367?lang=en.
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 161 ([W]hoever drafted the statement
                  it was not accurate.).
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 161.
               217.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 224; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb.
                  1, 2022), p. 163.
               218.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 223.  
               219.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 223.  
               220.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000082597, (reflecting
                  calls with Mr. Stephen Bannon on Jan. 5, 2021, from 8:57 a.m. to 9:08 a.m. and from
                  9:46 p.m. to 9:52 p.m.).
               221.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription), CTRL0000082317 (Jan.
                  5, 2021, Steve Bannon War Room Transcript) (Bannon: All hell is going to break loose
                  tomorrow. Just understand this: All hell is going to break loose tomorrow. Its going
                  to be quick ... Its the fog of war. Bannon discussed putting Sen. Grassleys number
                  on the screen, and suggested they encourage users at TheDonald.win to contact the
                  Senator. (At the time, users at TheDonald.win were openly planning for violence and
                  to surround the U.S. Capitol on January 6. See Chapter 6.) Bannon told his audience. Ill tell you this, its not going to happen
                  like you think its going to happen, Ok? Its going to be quite extraordinarily different.
                  And all I can say is strap in.). 
               222.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription) CTRL0000082317, (Jan.
                  5, 2021) (Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               223.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Transcription) CTRL0000082317, (Jan.
                  5, 2021) (Steve Bannon War Room Transcript).
               224.  Peter Navarro, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 252. 
               225.  Peter Navarro, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 263.
               226.  Peter Navarro, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 271.
               227.  Peter Navarro, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 252.
               228.  Peter Navarro, In Trump Time: A Journal of Americas Plague Year (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 263.
               229.  See e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976.
               230.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 26-27 (But just to pick up on that,
                  Mr. Short, was it your impression that the Vice President had directly conveyed his
                  position on these issues to the President, not just to the world through a Dear Colleague
                  Letter, but directly to President Trump? A: Many times. Q: And had been consistent
                  in conveying his position to the President? A: Very consistent.); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 102 ([T]hats where the Vice President
                  started.  Thats where he stayed the entire way.); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson,
                  (Mar. 30, 2022), p. 181 (I believe that the Vice President was consistent in his
                  understanding of the law and the precedent and his belief as to what his authority
                  was and was not on January 6th.).
               231.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 1:00 a.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106072109/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346698217304584192 (archived). 
               232.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:17 a.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106131747/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346808075626426371 (archived).
               233.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:22 a.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106132244/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346809349214248962 (archived).
               234.  At 9:02 a.m., President Trump instructed the White House operator to call back with
                  the Vice President; the operator instead informed the President at 9:15 a.m. that
                  a message was left for the Vice President. Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives
                  Production), P-R000261 (Presidential Call Log, White House Switchboard), P-R000255
                  (Daily Diary).
               235.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000285 (11:20 c
                  w/ VPOTUS); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255
                  (The President talked on a phone call to an unidentified person); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 12 (stating that a military aide interrupted
                  Pences meeting with staff to inform the Vice President that the President was holding
                  to speak with him).
               236.  Present in the Oval Office during the call with the Vice President were Melania Trump,
                  Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump, Kimberly Guilfoyle, and Lara Trump, as
                  well as Mark Meadows, Stephen Miller, Eric Herschmann, and Gen. Keith Kellogg. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 30-32, 37.
               237.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 47.
               238.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 39.
               239.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 41.
               240.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), pp. 17-18.
               241.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), p. 19 (And the word that she relayed
                  to you that the President called the Vice Presidentapologize for being impolitebut
                  do you remember what she said her father called him? The Pword.). See also Peter Baker, Maggie Haberman, and Annie Karni, Pence Reached His Limit with Trump. It Wasnt Pretty, New York Times, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/12/us/politics/mike-pence-trump.html; Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), at pp. 27374 ([Y]ou said, You can be a patriot or you can be a pussy. Did you really say that or is
                  that an incorrect report? I wouldnt dispute it, [President Trump] answered.).
               242.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 127. 
               243.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 90; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donald J. Trump, Jr., (May 3, 2022), p. 84 (I know the line
                  of questioning was about sending it back to the States, but thats about the extent
                  of my recollection.).
               244.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 91 (Q: [Y]ou said he told the Vice
                  President that he has the legal authority to reject certain votes. Is that what you
                  said? A: That he had the constitutional authority to do that, yes.); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 48 (describing it as a
                  general discussion about the legal and constitutional authority of the VP).
               245.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 92.
               246.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 169.
               247.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 40; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022). 
               248.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 4041.
               249.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               250.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat. 
               251.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat. 
               252.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat (We now have letters from five legislators begging us to do that. Theyre asking us.
                  Georgia, Pennsylvania, Arizona, Wisconsin, and one other coming in.).
               253.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Marc Short Production), J6C-TSM-0003, J6C-TSM-0004,
                  (January 6, 2021, email from Molly Michael to March Short containing subject line
                  2057Rayburn_20210106_002040.pdf and an attached letter). The letter bore the signatures
                  of 19 of the 60 members of the Arizona House and 4 of the 30 members of the Arizona
                  Senate.
               254.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman005235, Chapman005236,
                  (January 5, 2021, email from John Eastman to Greg Jacob with an attached letter dated
                  January 4, 2021). In an interview given after January 6th, Eastman argued that the Vice President still should have acted on the basis of the
                  statement of a minority of the Pennsylvania legislature because it was over Christmas,
                  and they were having trouble getting ahold of people to sign the letter. John McCormack,
                  John Eastman vs. the Eastman Memo, National Review, (Oct. 22, 2021), available at https://www.nationalreview.com/2021/10/john-eastman-vs-the-eastman-memo/.
               255.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman005235,
                  Chapman005236.
               256.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022).
               257.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Jake Corman, (Jan. 25, 2022). Corman told the Select Committee
                  that he understood the Vice Presidents role at the joint session was not substantive.
               258.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 167-68; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p.
                  14; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 166-67.
               259.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat.
               260.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat.
               261.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat.
               262.  Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trumps Washington, D.C. Rally: Wants Trial
                  by Combat, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat (emphasis added). Note in particular Eastmans assertions regarding voting machines,
                  for example, They put those ballots in a secret folder in the machines. Sitting there
                  waiting until they know how many they need. Eastman would later describe what he
                  was calling on the Vice President to do as merely to pause the proceedings. John
                  C. Eastman, Setting the Record Straight on the POTUS Ask, The American Mind, (Jan. 18, 2021), available at https://americanmind.org/memo/setting-the-record-straight-on-the-potus-ask/.
               263.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               264.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               265.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               266.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               267.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               268.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               269.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR,
                  (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               270.  Mike Pence (@Mike_Pence), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 1:02 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/Mike_Pence/status/1346879811151605762. Between 12:45 and 1:00 p.m., Vice President Pence processed with the Senate to the
                  House Chamber. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022),
                  pp. 202-03. The Vice Presidents statement was issued publicly and distributed on
                  the House floor before the Vice President convened the joint session at approximately
                  1:05 p.m. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p.
                  173; see also Donna Cassata and Felicia Sonmez, Congress Meets in Joint Session to Confirm Bidens Win, Over the Objections of
                  Dozens of Republicans, Washington Post, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/01/06/congress-electoral-college-vote-live-updates/#link-DUX3QUF3TVDNZDEGO7KIK2JSYE.
               271.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p.
                  164.
               272.  Mike Pence (@Mike_Pence), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 1:02 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/Mike_Pence/status/1346879811151605762; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000121, (January
                  6, 2021, Dear Colleague letter issued by Vice President Pence).
               273.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 27-28 (testifying that, in consultation
                  with the Senate Parliamentarian, the Vice President purposefully revised the standard
                  language used by previous vice presidents at the joint session of Congress because
                  of efforts by the Trump Campaign and allies to create the public perception that there
                  were other slates of electors that were being considered or [] being put forward.).
               274.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 186-88; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb.
                  1, 2022), pp. 53-54; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 50-51. The
                  Senate Parliamentarian offers advice and guidance on compliance with the Senates
                  rules. See CRS Report, The Office of the Parliamentarian in the House and Senate, (Nov. 28,
                  2018) RS20544. The Office of the Secretary of the Senate, on behalf of the Senate
                  Parliamentarian and her staff, declined requests for information about this topic,
                  as well as other January 6-related topics, from the Select Committee citing the independent
                  relationship of the Senate and House as well as historical congressional norms.
               275.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 64; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar.
                  30, 2022), pp. 54-56 (testifying that the Vice Presidents understanding of his role
                  as explained in the Dear Colleague letter he released on January 6th was set as of
                  his meeting with the Parliamentarian on January 3rd).
               276.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 68-70; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan.
                  26, 2022), pp. 2728; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00163,
                  (Vice President Superscript for Joint Session to Count Electoral Ballots January 6,
                  2021), 00181, (Response to Submissions NOT Certified by a State); Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000103_0001 (Pence joint session scripted
                  responses).
               277.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 42. Jacob learned through the media
                  that Trump electors had met and purported to cast electoral votes but, seeing no indication
                  that any of the groups that met had an imprimatur of State authority, he concluded
                  that they would not qualify as competing slates under the Electoral Count Act. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 51; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 54 (Im sure I, either in my oral conversation
                  with Elizabeth [MacDonough] or in looking at this spreadsheet, confirmed my conclusion
                  that none of these had the requisite State authority.).
               278.  The Senate Parliamentarian and her staff tracked the receipt of legitimate electoral
                  votes from the states as well as the private citizen submissions (including the fake
                  slates submitted by Trump electors) and identified the many deficiencies of the fake
                  documents. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP R0000323_0001
                  (Jan. 3, 2021 email exchange with Senate Parliamentarian), VP R0000417_0001 (Jan.
                  2 and 3, 2021 email exchange with Senate Parliamentarian), VP R0000418_0001 (list
                  of deficiencies in alternate elector slates); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson
                  Production), 00094, (list of deficiencies in alternate elector slates). The Senate
                  Parliamentarian reviewed each purported slate of electoral votes to separate those
                  in regular form and authorized by a State from those submitted by private citizensthe
                  Trump Campaigns fake electors fell into this latter category. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 53- 54; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 44-45. 
               279.  House Chamber During Joint Session, C-SPAN, at 11:0711:37, Jan. 6, 2021, available
                  at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507748-1/house-chamber-joint-session (emphasis added).
               280.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Andrew Hitt, (Feb. 28, 2022), pp. 94-95. See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000076, VP-R0000417,
                  VP-R0000418, (January 3, 2021, emails and spreadsheet showing OVP staff tracking the
                  arrival of fake electors certificates).
               281.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000090 (text messages exchanged
                  between Republican officials in Wisconsin, including statement that [f]reaking trump
                  idiots want someone to fly original elector papers to the Senate President.).
               282.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00012, (message from Rep.
                  Kellys Chief of Staff, Matt Stroia, to Chris Hodgson on Jan. 6, 2021, at 8:41 am),
                  00058, (messages from Senator Johnsons Chief of Staff, Sean Riley, to Chris Hodgson
                  on Jan. 6, 2021, around 12:37 pm).
               283.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00058 (Chris Hodgson responding
                  to Sean Riley, Do not give that to him. Hes about to walk over to preside over the
                  joint session, those were supposed to come in through the mail[.] And, The VP absolutely
                  should not receive any mail that hasnt been screened.).
               284.  See, e.g., House Chamber During Joint Session, C-SPAN, at 15:3315:59, Jan. 6, 2021, available
                  at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507748-1/house-chamber-joint-session.
               285.  Karoun Demirjian, GOP Members Object to Arizonas Electoral Votes for Biden, Washington Post, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/01/06/congress-electoral-college-vote-live-updates/#link-TSWL74F2SVHBHET7GQR5IEP6FI .
               286.  House Chamber During Joint Session, C-SPAN, at 15:5917:16, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507748-1/house-chamber-joint-session.
               287.  House Chamber During Joint Session, C-SPAN, at 17:1618:01, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507748-1/house-chamber-joint-session.
               288.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 29.
               289.  House vote on Arizona (Roll No. 10): 167 Cong. Rec. H93 (daily ed. Jan. 6, 2021):
                  121-303; House vote on PA (Roll No. 11): 167 Cong. Rec. H112 (daily ed. Jan. 6, 2021):
                  138-282; Senate vote on Arizona (Rollcall Vote No. 1 Leg.): 167 Cong. Rec. S31-32
                  (daily ed. Jan. 6, 2021): 6-93; Senate vote on PA (Rollcall Vote. No. 2 Leg.): 167
                  Cong. Rec. S38 (daily ed. Jan. 6, 2021): 7-92.
               290.  Katie Meyer, Congress Certifies Pa. Results, Bidens Victory After Chaotic Day of
                  Violent Insurrection, WHYY, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://whyy.org/articles/casey-fitzpatrick-condemn-violent-insurrection-as-congress-moves-toward-certifying-biden/.
               291.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 173-74.
               292.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 173-75.
               293.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 193.   
               294.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 208-09.
               295.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 208-10; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), P-R001019  P-R001020 (Jan. 6, 2021, NSC Chat Log).
               296.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106192450/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346900434540240897.
               297.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R001019  P-R001020
                  (NSC Chat Log).
               298.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 37-38.
               299.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 30-31.
               300.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 30-31.
               301.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 30-31.
               302.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R001019  P-R001020
                  (NSC Chat Log).
               303.  See Chapter 8; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 31-32.
               304.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available athttps://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               305.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 63-65.
               306.  On the evening of January 6, 2021, the Presidents Military Aide told the Vice Presidents
                  Military Aide (who relayed it to the Secret Service) that Marc Shorts access to the
                  White House complex had been cancelled. Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Secret Service
                  Production), CTRL0000513149 (January 6-7, 2021 emails), CTRL0000673145, (January 6,
                  2021 emails). Several people relayed to Marc Short that some who instigated the Presidentpossibly Peter Navarrosuggested to the President that Marc was responsible for leading the Vice President
                  on the path he took, which resulted in the President exclaiming that Mr. Short should
                  be locked out of the White House. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp.
                  236-37; see also Biba Adams, Pences Chief of Staff Denied Entry into WH: Trump Blaming Me, Yahoo News, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://www.yahoo.com/video/pence-chief-staff-denied-entry-173848235.html.
               307.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 238.
               308.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 31, 45 (The reason was he felt like,
                  for the worlds greatest democracy, to see a motorcade, a 15-car motorcade fleeing
                  the Capitol would send all the wrong signals. So he was adamant to say: I want to
                  stay here in the Capitol.); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available athttps://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               309.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 29-31, 44-45; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb.
                  1, 2022), pp. 176-77; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available athttps://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               310.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 198.
               311.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 198-99.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 198-99.
               313.  Jacob told the Select Committee that he recognized that January 6 was going to be
                  an historically important day and he wanted to memorialize exactly what he thought
                  of the arguments made by Eastman on January 5th, to supplement the memo he wrote to
                  Vice President Pence reflecting the arguments Eastman made on January 4th. Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition
                  of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 200-01.
               314.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman005370 (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman).
               315.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman005379 (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman).
               316.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 200.
               317.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 200.
               318.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 246-47.
               319.  READ: Mike Pences Statement to the Senate on the Storming of the Capitol, U.S. News, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.usnews.com/news/elections/articles/2021-01-06/read-mike-pences-statement-to-the-senate-on-the-storming-of-the-capitol; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), p. 246 (testifying that the Vice President
                  wrote his remarks himself in his ceremonial office after the Capitol was cleared).
               320.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000155, (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman).
               321.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), VP-R0000155, p. 1, (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman).
               322.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022),
                  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               323.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), VP-R0000155, (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman). Note that Greg Jacobs testimony
                  establishes that this email was likely received on January 6, 2021, at 11:44 p.m.,
                  not at 4:44 a.m. the following morning as shown on the face of this document as produced.
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 205. As noted in the Executive Summary,
                  the Select Committee also received certain documents in UTC time, which is five hours
                  ahead of EST.
               324.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman005479 (January
                  6, 2021, emails between Greg Jacob and John Eastman). This email represents John Eastman
                  again encouraging, in writing and just after the violent attack on the Capitol had
                  been quelled, that the Vice President use this as a justification for a further and
                  much more serious violation of the lawdelaying the certification. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available athttps://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. Eastman attempted to minimize what he was doing by calling the Electoral Count Act
                  a minor procedural statute. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 133. In
                  an email sent at 1:33 p.m., just before the Capitol was breached, Eastman wrote, Im
                  sorry Greg, but this is small minded. Youre sticking with minor procedural statutes
                  while the Constitution is being shredded. Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives
                  Production), VP-R0000166.
               325.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available athttps://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               326.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 43-44. 
               327.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 43-44.
               328.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman0064047, (January
                  11, 2021, email from John Eastman to Rudy Giuliani).
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 35-36.
