            6
             BE THERE, WILL BE WILD!
            On December 14, 2020, electors around the country met to cast their Electoral College
               votes. Their vote ensured former Vice President Joe Bidens victory and cemented President
               Donald J. Trumps defeat. The people, and the States, had spoken. Members of President
               Trumps own Cabinet knew the election was over. Attorney General William Barr viewed
               it as the end of the matter.1 Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Labor Eugene Scalia concurred.2 That same day, Scalia told President Trump directly that he should concede defeat.3 
            President Trump had no intention of conceding. As he plotted ways to stay in power,
               the President summoned a mob for help.   
            At 1:42 a.m., on December 19th, President Trump tweeted: Big protest in D.C. on January
               6th. Be there, will be wild!4 
            The Presidents tweet galvanized tens of thousands of his supporters around the country.
               President Trump had been lying to them since election day, claiming he won, and that
               the Democrats had stolen victory from him. Now, with a single tweet, the President
               focused his supporters anger on the joint session of Congress in Washington, DC on
               January 6th. 
            Anika Navaroli, the longest-tenured member of Twitters Trust and Safety Policy team,
               monitored the reaction to President Trumps be wild tweet. She told the Select Committee
               that the President was essentially staking a flag in DC ... for his supporters
               to come and rally.5 The tweet created a fire hose of calls to overthrow the U.S. Government. President
               Trumps supporters had a new sense of urgency because they felt as if their Commander
               in Chief had summoned them.6
            For many extremists and conspiracy theorists, the Presidents announcement was a call
               to arms.7 
            For the Proud Boysdescribed in more detail belowand their leader, Henry Enrique
               Tarrio, President Trumps tweet set in motion a chain of events that led directly
               to the attack on the U.S. Capitol. In the days that followed, the Proud Boys reorganized
               their hierarchy, imposed a stricter chain-of-command, and instructed followers to
               go incognito on January 6th.8 The Proud Boys had made their presence known at previous pro-Trump events, including
               Stop the Steal rallies, where they brandished their black and yellow apparel and
               engaged in street brawls.9 Suddenly, they did not want to stand out from the crowd. They wanted to blend in.
               They were planning something big.10 
            Tarrio allegedly used encrypted messages to plot the January 6, 2021, attack. On January
               4, 2021, Tarrio told his men that they should storm the Capitol.11 While the attack was underway, Tarrio claimed credit in a private chat, writing:
               We did this.12 And on the evening of January 6th, Tarrio released a video of a man, presumably Tarrio
               himself, dressed in an odd costume standing in front of the U.S. Capitol. The eerie
               production had been recorded prior to the events of that day. Tarriowho was not in
               Washington, DC on January 6th13titled it, Premonition.14   
            
                  Tarrios video appears on a screen during a Select Committee hearing on June 09, 2022.
                  Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images
               
            
            The Oath Keepers, a far-right, anti-government militia movementalso described in
               more detail belowbegan planning for January 6th after the Presidents tweet as well.
               Stewart Rhodes, the groups leader, had agitated against the U.S. Government for years.15 Immediately following the 2020 presidential election, Rhodes and others schemed to
               stop the peaceful transfer of power. They stored weapons outside of Washington, DC,16  hoping that President Trump would deputize them as his own militia.17 An Oath Keeper leader, Kelly Meggs, read President Trumps December 19th tweet and
               commented in a Facebook message: He called us all to the Capitol and wants us to
               make it wild!!! Sir Yes Sir!!!18 The Oath Keepers formed two military stacks and marched up the steps of the U.S.
               Capitol on January 6th. Meggs led one of them.19 
            Members of both the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers have been charged with seditious
               conspiracy and other serious crimes, including conspiracy to interfere with a Federal
               proceeding; some, including Stewart Rhodes, have been convicted.20 U.S. law defines seditious conspiracy as plotting to overthrow, or to oppose by
               force, or to use force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of
               the United States.21 Some of the two groups members have already admitted that this is what they intended
               to do.22 
            Other extremists and conspiracy theorists mobilized after President Trumps tweet
               as well. These movements are described in more detail in subsequent sections. Three
               Percenter militiasanother far-right, anti-government movementshared #OccupyCongress
               memes23 and planned for violence at the U.S. Capitol.24 Nick Fuentes, leader of the white nationalist Groypers, rallied his followers for
               January 6th.25 Fuentes bragged afterwards that the Capitol siege was fucking awesome.26 Users on TheDonald.win, a website populated by some of President Trumps most ardent
               fans, openly discussed surrounding and occupying the U.S. Capitol.27  
            Adherents of QAnon, a bizarre and dangerous conspiracy cult, believed January 6th
               would bring the prophesied Storm  a violent purge of Democrats and government officials
               promised by the mysterious online personality known only as Q.28 QAnons devotees flocked to Washington, DC because of the Presidents tweet and subsequent
               rhetoric. They shared a digital banner, Operation Occupy the Capitol, which depicted
               the U.S. Capitol being torn in two.29 
            One especially notorious conspiracy theorist, Alex Jones, repeatedly told his InfoWars viewers that January 6th would be a day of reckoning.30 Jones is known for his outlandish conspiracy-mongering, including his baseless claim
               that the massacre of school children at Sandy Hook Elementary School was really a
               false flag operation staged by the U.S. Government.  Of course, his vicious lie
               was disproven in court, but Jones is obsessed with deep state conspiracy theories
               and often propagates them.31 After the 2020 presidential election, Jones argued that President Trump should use
               the power of the Government to impose martial law on American citizens.32 Along with his InfoWars co-hosts, Jones amplified President Trumps Big Lie and relentlessly promoted President
               Trumps wild protest.  One of Jones co-hosts floated the idea of storming right
               into the Capitol.33 Jones himself marched to the Capitol January 6th.34
            Joness influence helped shape the planning for January 6th behind the scenes as well.
               The Select Committee investigated how event organizers and the White House staff planned
               President Trumps rally at the Ellipse, a park south of the White House. This event
               was intended to rile up the Presidents supporters just prior to the joint session
               of Congress. A wealthy heiress paid for the event after listening to Jones InfoWars rant about the importance of President Trumps tweet. She spent $3 million with the
               goal to get as many people there as possible.35 It worked  Americans who believed the election was stolen flocked to the Nations capital.  
            By January 5th, President Trumps supportersa large, angry crowd ready for instructionshad
               assembled in Washington. That evening, he could hear his raucous supporters at a rally
               not far from the White House. The President knew his supporters were angry,36 and he planned to call on them to march on the U.S. Capitol.37 He even wanted to join them on the march.38 It was all part of President Trumps plan to intimidate officials and obstruct the
               joint session of Congress. 
            We fight like hell, President Trump told the crowd assembled at the Ellipse on January 6,
                  2021. And if you dont fight like hell, youre not going to have a country anymore.39 Some of those in attendance, as well as elsewhere in Washington that day, were already prepared to fight. They had begun preparing two and a half weeks earlier  when President Trump told them it would be wild!
            6.1 How Far-right Extremists and Conspiracy Theorists Planned for January 6th
            The Stop the Steal Coalition
            President Trumps be wild tweet immediately mobilized extremists and conspiracy
               theorists in the Stop the Steal coalition. The phrase Stop the Steal was originally
               coined in early 2016 by President Trumps longtime political advisor, Roger Stone.40 At the time, Stone alleged first that Candidate Trumps Republican rivals were attempting
               to steal Candidate Trumps nomination.41 After Trump became the nominee, Stone repurposed the saying to claim that former
               Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would steal the presidency. 42  When President Trump won the 2016 election, Stop the Steal was rendered mootand
               did not become a significant political movement until President Trumps defeat on
               election night in 2020.43 As early as November 5, 2020, Stone advised associates that he intended to reconstitute Stop the Steal by building an
                  army of lawyers and suing like theres no tomorrow.44 
            Ali Alexander, a rightwing provocateur who has worked closely with Stone,45 quickly organized a new Stop the Steal campaign. On November 10, 2020, Alexander established Stop the Steal as an entity incorporated
                  in Alabama.46 Alexander added a bank account and various websites.47 
            One of Alexanders key allies in the Stop the Steal movement was Alex Jones. Prior
               to January 6th, Jones riled up crowds both in-person and online with incendiary rhetoric
               about the election. Jones InfoWars was also a platform for others in the election-denial coalition. For instance, both
               Enrique Tarrio and Stewart Rhodes made multiple appearances on InfoWars, including between election day 2020 and January 6, 2021.48 
            Another frequent guest on InfoWars was Roger Stone  a nexus character in the Stop the Steal coalition.49 Stone recommended that then Presidential Candidate Donald Trump appear on Joness
               show in December 2015.50 Trump accepted the invitation and praised Jones at length during his appearance.51 The significance of Trumps interview with Jones should not be underestimated. Donald
               Trump was a leading presidential contender at the time and would go on to win the
               election. His appearance with Jones normalized InfoWars, welcoming its conspiracy-minded audience into Trumps base.52 Trump did not appear on InfoWars again. However, Stone continued to make regular guest appearances.53
            After election day 2020, Alexander Jones, and other Stop the Steal organizers, held
               rallies around the country to protest fictional claims of voter fraud. These events
               provided an opportunity for radicals and extremists to coalesce. The Proud Boys, Oath
               Keepers, and Three Percenters were all attendees. QAnon adherents were well-represented.
               So, too, were the white nationalist Groypers and their leader, Nick Fuentes. 
            Stop the Steal events and other protests throughout 2020 helped build the momentum
               for January 6th. The Select Committee collected data on 85 right-wing events between January 1, 2020,
                  and January 20, 2021, which were inspired by opposition to COVID-19 lockdown measures, racial justice protests, and,
                  later, the perceived theft of President Trumps victory.54 Far-right extremists protested at or inside State capitols, or at other government buildings, in at least 68 instances.55 Of those, 49 occurred during the period after the election through January 6th.56 In the year leading up to January 6th, there were at least nine events at which far-right actors entered State capitols.57At least four of these capitol incursionsin Michigan,58 Idaho,59 Arizona,60 and Oregon61involved identifiable individuals who later participated in the attack on the U.S.
                  Capitol.
            Consider, for example, the protests held in Atlanta between November 18 and 21, 2020.
               Leaders and rank-and-file members of the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, and Groypers, gathered outside the State capitol and the governors mansion for nonstop events, including armed protests.
                  Enrique Tarrio62 and Stewart Rhodes63 personally led contingents of the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers, respectively.  
            Jones first announced the Atlanta events on InfoWars on November 16th. In his announcement, Jones teased that he would be joined by Roger Stone and also called on listeners to surround the governors mansion in order to prevent the
                  election results from being certified.64   Fuentes advertised that he would be speaking at the capitol every day at noon.65 In fiery speeches across Atlanta, Fuentes spread election lies as well as wink-and-nod hints at intimidation
                  and violence.66 
            
                  Alex Jones and Ali Alexander inside the Georgia State Capitol during a Stop the Steal
                     rally on November 18, 2020 in Atlanta, Georgia.
                  Photo by Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images
               
            
            Alexander, standing alongside Jones and Fuentes outside the State capitol on November 18th, exhorted the crowd to storm the capitol with them.67 The three men led a crowd into the State capitol building.  On November 20th, Roger Stone gave a speech outside the Georgia capitol. Speaking through a telephone
                  held up by Alexander, Stone advanced election lies, and finished with a provocative
                  rallying cry: Victory or death!68 That same day, Fuentes told the crowd, Look, weve been in front of the State capitol, maybe weve been trying the wrong approach.69 Days earlier, at a nighttime event outside the governors mansion, Alexander, again flanked by Jones
                  and Fuentes, goaded the crowd: Well light the whole shit on fire.70
            While the crowd did not turn violent, the Stop the Steal protests in Atlanta, Georgia, prefigured January 6th in important respects. Stop the Steal organizers tried to use the mob they had
                  assembled  including extremists from the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, Three Percenters and Groypers  to intimidate lawmakers and overturn the election results in Georgia, which was required to certify former Vice President Bidens victory in the State by the end of that week.71 They implored their followers to storm the capitol.72 As discussed in Chapter 8, this same coalition of radicals did just that on January 6, 2021. 
            Other Stop the Steal events helped pave the way for the events of January 6th. Two rallies in Washington D.C.  on November 14 and December 12, 2020  were critically important. Alexanders Stop the Steal was not the only protest
                  organization present at these events. Both were called Million MAGA Marches and drew in other rally organizers. One of these other protests was called the Jericho March
                  prayer rally.73  Regardless, the same constellation of actors that appeared in Atlanta also incited Trump supporters in Washington. 
            
                  Million MAGA March protest on November 14, 2020 in Washington, DC.
                  Photo by Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images
               
            
            For instance, during the Jericho March rally on December 12th, Stewart Rhodes called on President Trump to invoke the Insurrection Act as part of a desperate gambit to remain in power. In Rhodes vision, he would lead militiamen on behalf of President Trump when others tried to remove
                  him from office.74 If President Trump did not invoke the Insurrection Act, Rhodes warned the crowd, then they would be forced to wage a much more desperate [and] much
                  more bloody war. Alex Jones also gave an incendiary speech at the Jericho March event,
                  declaring: I dont know who is going to the White House in 38 days, but I sure know this, Joe Biden
                  is a globalist, and Joe Biden will be removed, one way or another!75 
            As the crowds gathered in Washington on December 12th, President Trump was publicly lobbying the Supreme Court to hear his fictious claims
                  of election fraud. The President assailed the Supreme Court on Twitter throughout
                  the day.76 The Stop the Steal coalition was eager to help. After the Jericho March event ended, Jones, his InfoWars co-host Owen Shroyer, and Ali Alexander led a march on the Supreme Court. Once there,
                  the crowd chanted slogans such as Stop the Steal!; 1776!!; Our revolution!; and The fight has just begun!!77 
            President Trump made sure to let the protesters in Washington know that he personally
               approved of their mission. During the November rally, President Trump waved to the
               crowd from his presidential motorcade.78 Then, on the morning of December 12th, President Trump tweeted: Wow! Thousands of
               people forming in Washington (D.C.) for Stop the Steal. Didnt know about this, but
               Ill be seeing them! #MAGA.79 Later that day, President Trump flew over the protesters in Marine One.80
            When President Trump tweeted one week later that there would be a wild protest in
               Washington on January 6th, the Stop the Steal coalition immediately began to mobilize.
               Jones posted an article on the InfoWars website asking readers if they would answer President Trumps call to defend the
               Republic?81 The next day, December 20th, Jones devoted much of his InfoWars show to the Presidents announcement. Jones told his audience several times that
               if 10 million Americans came to Washington, DC on January 6th, Congress would have
               to listen to them.82 He repeated this idea over the course of the episode, saying things such as, Hes
               calling you, he needs your help, we need your help, we need 10 million people there, [w]e need
               martial law and have to prevent the police state of foreigners from taking over.
               Jones added: Its literally in our hands. Its literally up to us.83
            Other InfoWars hosts promoted the wild protest as well. In late December, Matt Bracken told InfoWars
               viewers that it may be necessary to storm the U.S. Capitol. Were going to only be
               saved by millions of Americans moving to Washington, occupying the entire area, if
                if necessary storming right into the Capitol, Bracken said. You know, theyre
                we know the rules of engagement. If you have enough people, you can push down any
               kind of a fence or a wall.84
            Far-right extremists planned to do just that.  
            6.2 The Proud Boys: [Y]ou Want to Storm the Capitol
            From the Proud Boys founding in 2016, violence was intrinsic to their mission. We will kill you. Thats the Proud Boys in a nutshell, their founder said.85 New recruits pledge an oath, established in the groups bylaws, identifying themselves
               as unapologetic Western chauvinists,86 promoting an exclusionary, hyper-masculine interpretation of Western culture.87  They find common ground in an embrace of misogyny and hate for their perceived enemies.88 The group is somewhat ethnically diverse, but their public and private messages fester
               with toxic white supremacist, xenophobic, and anti-Semitic slurs.89 
            The Proud Boys have participated in, or instigated, protests since their founding.90 Theyve long been known as street brawlers looking for a fight.91 But 2020 was a watershed year for the group. As protests spread around the country,
               the Proud Boys deputized themselves as agents of law and ordervigilantes against
               perceived threats.92 More often, they played the role of instigators.93 They portrayed themselves as counter-protesters and identified their targets as Black
               Lives Matter and Antifathough they were hard-pressed to define their organizational
               enemies.94 
            
                  A Proud Boy during a Stop the Steal rally on November 7, 2020 in Salem, Oregon.
                  Photo by Nathan Howard/Getty Images
               
            
            During the presidential debate on September 29, 2020, President Trump was asked to
               disavow far-right extremists, including the Proud Boys. The President did not explicitly
               condemn the group. Instead, he seemingly endorsed their mission. Stand back and stand
               by, President Trump told the Proud Boys, before adding, but Ill tell you what ...
               somebodys got to do something about Antifa and the left.95  The Presidents words electrified the group, injecting new life into their recruitment
               and activities. According to Nick Quested, a filmmaker who spent significant time
               with the group and testified before the Select Committee, the Proud Boys had found
               their savior in President Trump.96
            Joseph Biggs, a senior Proud Boy, immediately trumpeted President Trumps debate statement
               on Parler,97  a fringe social media platform. Biggs made it clear that the Proud Boys were ready
               to fight Antifa.98 The groups size tripled in response to President Trumps apparent endorsement,
               according to Jeremy Bertino, a Proud Boys leader who has pleaded guilty to seditious
               conspiracy in relation to January 6th.99 Similarly, Enrique Tarrio and another Proud Boys member, George Meza, testified to
               the Select Committee that the Presidents comment was a pivotal, energizing moment.100 The group started selling merchandise with their new stand back and stand by slogan
               the very same night.101
            As the presidential votes were tallied, the Proud Boys became agitated at the prospect
               that President Trump would lose. On November 5, 2020, Biggs posted on social media,
               Its time for fucking war if they steal this shit.102 As former Vice President Joe Bidens victory became apparent, Proud Boys leaders
               directed their ire toward others in the Government. Biggs, speaking on a Proud Boys
               livestream show with Tarrio and others, warned that government officials are evil
               scum, and they all deserve to die a traitors death. Ethan Nordeananother Proud
               Boys leader who allegedly helped lead the attack at the Capitolresponded, Yup, Day
               of the Rope,103 referring to a day of mass lynching of race traitors in the white supremacist novel
               The Turner Diaries.104
            The Proud Boys in Washington prior to January 6th
            Within days of the election, dozens of Stop the Steal protests were organized around
               the country.105 The Proud Boys participated alongside other right-wing extremist groups in some of
               them, including a November 7, 2020, protest outside of the Pennsylvania State capitol
               in Harrisburg.106 The two events in Washington, DC  on November 14, 2020, and the other on December
               12, 2020  proved to be especially important for the groups evolution.
            The daytime events on both dates passed by without violence or major unrest, but as
               the sun set, bouts of violence erupted,107 driven by clashes between far-right extremist groupschiefly the Proud Boysand counter-protesters.108 Among far-right extremists, the Proud Boys had the largest showing in both November
               and December,109 with roughly 200 to 300 Proud Boys at the November 14th rally, and the same number or more in December.110 As discussed in Chapter 8, they mustered about the same contingent for the attack
               on the U.S. Capitol.
            The gathering on November 14th provided a chance for Tarrio to socialize with rally
               leaders and far-right celebrities. In fact, his travel to DC by private jet appears
               to have been paid for by Patrick Byrne, a businessman who had President Trumps ear
               in the last weeks of his presidency and encouraged the President to authorize the
               seizure of voting machines in a December 18th meeting.111 Tarrios testimony and photographs from the day show that he met with Stop the Steal
               organizer Ali Alexander that evening, and the pair toasted each other.112 Tarrio described the event as a historic meeting of Trump supporters and celebrated
               the opportunity to share that platform with Alexander, Jones, and Jones InfoWars co-host, Owen Shroyer.113 Shroyer would later be charged with crimes committed during the January 6th attack.114
            A month later, the Proud Boys returned to the Nations capital. On the evening of
               December 11th, hundreds of Proud Boys and friends gathered in downtown Washington, DC to listen
               to an impromptu bullhorn speech by Tarrio and Nordean, along with Roger Stone and
               Shroyer.115 Stone implored the crowd to fight to the bitter end.116
            The next day, as the Proud Boys marched in force on the streets, Tarrio teased in
               a social media post that he had a meeting in the White House.117 The visit, which was only a public White House tour, appears to have been facilitated
               by a friend, Bianca Gracia, the head of Latinos for Trump.118 As the rallies concluded the next day, the Proud Boys took to the streets again.
               Two key events occurred that evening. 
            First, members of the Proud Boys tore down a Black Lives Matter banner from a historically
               Black church in downtown Washington, DC.119 They filmed themselves burning it.120 Tarrio was eventually charged with destruction of property.121 He was arrested on January 4, 2021, and banned from Washington, DC, barring him from
               joining the group at the Capitol.122 As explained in Chapter 8, however, Tarrios arrest did not stop him from conspiring
               with his men on January 6th.
            Minutes after the flag burning, a man wearing black clothes walked into a crowd of
               Proud Boys.123 Assuming he was associated with Antifa, they began pushing and harassing him, and
               he drew a knife in response.124 In the ensuing melee, four Proud Boys suffered stab wounds, including Bertino, a
               confidant to Tarrio.125 Bertinos wounds were severe and life-threatening, preventing him from joining the
               group on January 6th. 126 
            Storming the Winter Palace
            The Proud Boys began to reorient and formalize their operations to focus on January
               6th after President Trumps December 19th tweet. Inspired, in part, by Bertinos stabbing, the Proud Boys centered their new
               hierarchy in group chats that used terms such as Ministry of Self Defense (MOSD).127 However, the words Self Defense were misleading: Enrique Tarrio and others would
               soon go on the offense. And the MOSD served as their organizational scaffolding for
               the January 6, 2021, attack.
            On December 20, 2020, Tarrio established a national rally planning committee and
               created an encrypted MOSD chat to organize their activities.128 Tarrio added Proud Boys leaders from across the country, including several who played
               lead roles in the violence on January 6th.129 In the ensuing weeks, the Proud Boys traded equipment recommendations, shared maps
               marked with law enforcement positions, and established command and control structures.130 A separate encrypted chat, named Boots on the Ground, was established for foot
               soldiers who would be in Washington, DC on January 6th.131
            The Proud Boys planning for January 6th was a significant step in the groups evolution. Previously, they were loosely organized.
               The MOSD was created to enforce a top down structure with a defined leadership.132 Tarrio stressed the command structure by telling members that they needed to [f]it
               in [] or fuck off.133
            From the start, it was clear that MOSD chat members were intensely interested in disrupting
               the electoral count on January 6th. On December 20, 2020, one MOSD leader stated, I assume most of the protest will
               be at the capital [sic] building given whats going on inside.134 On December 29, 2020, in a group message to the MOSD, a member wrote, I know most
               of the events will be centered around freedom plaza. Tarrio responded, Negative.
               Theyre centered around the Capitol.135
            On December 30, 2020, Tarrio received an intriguing document titled, 1776 Returns.136 The document was apparently sent to him by cryptocurrency investors in South Florida.137 The files author(s) divided their plan into five parts, Infiltrate, Execution, Distract, Occupy and Sit-In, with the goal of overrunning
               several Federal buildings around the U.S. Capitol. The plan specifically mentioned
               House and Senate office buildings, setting forth steps for occupying them. The author(s)
               called for the masses to rush the building[s], distract law enforcement in the area
               by pulling fire alarms around the city, target specific Senators offices, and disguise
               participants identities with COVID masks.138 
            One proposal mentioned in the document is titled, Storm the Winter Palace.139 This is a reference to a dramatic reenactment of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, during
               which Vladimir Lenin ordered his forces to take over the Romanovs residence in Petrograd.
               The Winter Palace was the seat of the provisional government, which had held out
               against the Bolshevik revolutionaries. The Proud Boys would frame their actions on
               January 6th as part of the American Revolution. But the 1776 Returns document shows
               their inspiration came at least in part from the Communist Revolution, which led to
               70-plus years of totalitarian rule. No historical event has been less American. 
            The Proud Boys did not adopt the 1776 Returns plan in full. Several Proud Boys testified that they were unaware of the document before it became
               public.140 But the document does appear to have been significantly edited while in the Proud
               Boys hands.141 The person who sent it to Tarriohis ex-girlfriend, Eryka Gemma Florescommented,
               The revolution is [more] important than anything. To which Tarrio responded: Thats
               what every waking moment consists of ... Im not playing games.142  
            On January 3rd, Tarrio posted a conspicuous question on Telegram: What if we invade
               it? The first response to his post read: January 6th is D day [sic] in America.143 In private, on the Proud Boys leadership group message, planning continued. One
               MOSD leader, John Stewart, floated a plan that centered around the front entrance
               to the Capitol building.144 At 7:10 p.m. on January 3rd, Stewart wrote to the MOSD leaders:
            I mean the main operating theater should be out in front of the house of representatives.
               It should be out in front of the Capitol building. Thats where the vote is taking
               place and all of the objections. So, we can ignore the rest of these stages and all
               that shit and plan the operations based around the front entrance to the Capitol building.
               I strongly recommend you use the national mall and not Pennsylvania avenue though.
               Its wide-open space, you can see everything coming from all angles.145
            Early the next morning, on January 4th, Tarrio sent a voice memo to the same group
               of MOSD leaders stating, I didnt hear this voice until now, you want to storm the
               Capitol.146
            One of Tarrios comrades in the Proud Boys leadership, Charles Donohoewho pleaded
               guilty to conspiracy to obstruct an official proceeding and assaulting, resisting,
               or impeding certain officers147later told authorities that by January 4th he was aware that members of MOSD leadership
               were discussing the possibility of storming the Capitol.148 Donohoe believed that storming the Capitol would achieve the groups goal of stopping
               the government from carrying out the transfer of presidential power and understood
               that storming the Capitol would be illegal. 149 By the following evening, January 5th, Tarrio was discussing with other Proud Boy
               leaders a tactical plan for the following day. Their objective was to obstruct,
               impede, or interfere with the certification of the Electoral College vote.150 Moreover, Donohoe understood that the Proud Boys would pursue this through the use
               of force and violence, in order to show Congress that we the people were in charge.151 On January 6th, Charles Donohoe understood that two of his fellow Proud Boys leaders
                Ethan Nordean and Joe Biggs  were searching for an opportunity to storm the Capitol.152
            Jeremy Bertino, the Proud Boys leader who was stabbed on the night of December 12th,
               later told authorities that his fellow extremists plotted to stop the peaceful transfer
               of power. In October 2022, Bertino pleaded guilty to seditious conspiracy and other
               crimes.153  Bertino admitted that the Proud Boys traveled to Washington, DC on January 6, 2021,
               to stop the certification of the Electoral College Vote. They were willing to do
               whatever it would take, including using force against police and others, to achieve
               that objective.154 
            In testimony before the Select Committee, Bertino recalled a telling text exchange
               with Tarrio on the evening of January 6th. I was like, holy shit, or something
               like that I said to him, Bertino recalled. And I was like, I cant believe this
               is happening, or something like that, and 1776.155
            Tarrio replied to Bertino: Winter Palace.156 
            6.3 The Oath Keepers: He Called Us All to the Capitol and Wants Us to Make it Wild!!!
            The Oath Keepers, founded in 2009 by Elmer Stewart Rhodes, is a far-right anti-government
               organization. The group targets former and current military and law enforcement for
               recruitment. Their name refers to the oath taken by public servants to support and
               defend the U.S. Constitution. The Oath Keepers claimed fealty to the U.S. Constitution
               is belied by their obsession with conspiracy theories about alleged evil-intentioned
               elites in the Government.157 Rhodes has often spouted these conspiracy theories on InfoWars.158 
            Over the summer of 2020, the Oath Keepers organized armed groups, ostensibly to serve
               as volunteer, self-appointed security at protests around the country. The Oath Keepers
               used the protests to draw in new recruits.159 They also built muscle memory by coordinating for these events. For example, the
               Oath Keepers hired Michael Greene, who later coordinated Oath Keepers activities
               on January 5th and 6th, to lead security operations in multiple cities around the
               country.160 In the early part of 2020, protests against COVID-related lockdowns served as additional
               growth and networking opportunities. Kellye SoRelle, a lawyer for the Oath Keepers,
               met the Oath Keepers at a lockdown protest in Austin, Texas in early 2020. SoRelle
               saw these COVID events as a coalescing moment for different far-right groups.161
            The Stop the Steal movement created another opportunity for the Oath Keepers to
               grow their influence. Rhodes repeatedly amplified the stolen election conspiracy theory.
               On November 10, 2020, he posted a Call to Action! on the Oath Keepers website, alleging
               the election was stolen and exhorting his followers to refuse to EVER recognize
               this as a legitimate election, and refuse to recognize Biden as a legitimate winner.162 Under a section entitled What We the People Must Do, Rhodes quoted a patriot from
               Serbia, who also loves America. The Serbian author described how his fellow countrymen
               fomented a political revolution. Parts of the statement presaged the attack on the
               U.S. Capitol:
            ... Millions gathered in our capital [sic]. There were no barricades strong enough to stop them, nor the police determined
               enough to stop them. Police and Military aligned with the people after few hours of
               fist-fight [sic]. We stormed the Parliament. And burned down fake state Television! WE WON!163
            The Oath Keepers were obsessed with the Insurrection Act  seeing it as a way for
               President Trump to cling to power. Rhodes believed that the President could empower
               militias like the Oath Keepers to enforce law and order after other Americans refused
               to accept President Trumps rule.164 Indeed, President Trump had been intensely interested in the Insurrection Act as
               a potential tool to quell the protests in summer 2020.165 Rhodes wished the Act had been invoked then, but he did not give up on the fantasy.166 As mentioned above, Rhodes called for President Trump to invoke the Insurrection
               Act during his speech in Washington on December 12, 2020.167 
            That day, Rhodes also coordinated with Jericho March organizers to provide security.168 He coordinated with a paramilitary group known as 1st Amendment Praetorian (1AP),
               to guard VIPs, including retired Lieutenant General Michael Flynn and Patrick Byrne.169 Rhodes indicated that the Oath Keepers would be working closely with them for the
               event.170 
            The Oath Keepers continued to call for President Trump to invoke the Insurrection
               Act throughout December 2020, arguing that the President needed to do so to Stop
               the Steal.171 This fantasy reflected a warped sense of reality. Rhodes testified that President
               Trump could have mobilized unorganized militia, including the Oath Keepers, to suppress
               an insurrection if he attempted to stay in power after losing the election.172 But the Oath Keepers themselves were the ones contemplating insurrection. On December
               10, 2020, Rhodes messaged others: Either Trump gets off his ass and uses the Insurrection
               Act to defeat the Chicom puppet coup or we will have to rise up in insurrection (rebellion)
               against the ChiCom puppet Biden. Take your pick. 173 Rhodes was blunt in other messages to the Oath Keepers, writing: We need to push
               Tump [sic] to do his duty. If he doesnt, we will do ours. Declare Independence. Defy[,]
               Resist[,] Defend[,] Conquer or Die. This needs to be our attitude.174
            6.4 Trump Said Its Gonna be Wild!!!!!!! Its Gonna be Wild!!!!!!!
            As the Proud Boys began their plans for January 6th, Kelly Meggs, the leader of the
               Florida chapter of the Oath Keepers, reached out. In the past, the Proud Boys and
               the Oath Keepers had their differences, deriding each others tactics and ethos during
               the summer 2020 protests.175 But President Trumps tweet on December 19th conveyed a sense of urgency which provided
               the two extremist rivals the opportunity to work together for a common goal.
            After President Trumps tweet, Meggs called Enrique Tarrio. They spoke for 3 minutes
               and 26 seconds.176 Meggs also sent a message on Facebook, bragging about an alliance he had formed among
               the Oath Keepers, the Florida Three Percenters, and the Proud Boys: We have decided
               to work together and shut this shit down.177 The Oath Keepers were making plans of their own, too. 
            Oath Keepers president [Rhodes] is pretty disheartened, Roberto Minuta, one of Rhodes
               men, messaged someone on December 19th. He feels like its go time, the time for
               peaceful protest is over in his eyes. I was talking with him last night.178 Minuta has been charged with seditious conspiracy and other crimes.179    
            In the days that followed, the Oath Keepers planned for violence. They used encrypted
               chats on Signal to discuss travel plans, trade tips on tactical equipment to bring,
               and develop their plans for once they were on the ground in the DC area.180 On December 21st, 2020, Joshua James messaged the group, stating, SE region is creating
               a NATIONAL CALL TO ACTION FOR DC JAN 6TH. ... 4 states are mobilizing[.]181 Meggs, Rhodes, and others created several different chat groups to coordinate for
               January 6th.182
            On December 22nd, Meggs echoed President Trumps tweet in a Facebook message to someone
               else: 
            Trump said Its gonna be wild!!!!!!! Its gonna be wild!!!!!!! He wants us to make
               it WILD thats what hes saying. He called us all to the Capitol and wants us to make
               it wild!!! Sir Yes Sir!!! Gentlemen we are heading to DC pack your shit!!183
            Meggs also wrote that the Oath Keepers would have 50100 members in Washington, DC
               on January 6th.184 
            The Oath Keepers hosted periodic group video meetings to discuss plans for January
               6th. Richard Dockery, a former Oath Keepers member, testified to the Select Committee
               about a video call that took place around December 31st, and related specifically
               to planning for January 6th.185 During the call, Oath Keepers leadership announced plans to provide security for
               far-right celebrities like Roger Stone.186 If there were any problems while they were providing security, there was a quick
               reaction force in Virginia that would come help them out ... and that they would
               have firearms.187
            Rhodes announced during an episode of InfoWars in November 2020 that the Oath Keepers had established a Quick Reaction Force (QRF)
               outside of Washington, DC.188 After President Trump announced the wild protest, the groups advanced coordination
               largely focused on planning related to their QRF, as well as the various security
               details for VIPs and stage areas on January 5th and 6th.189 Oath Keepers from North Carolina, Florida, South Carolina, and Arizona converged
               on the Comfort Inn in Ballston, Virginia, and used the location to store their cache
               of weapons for January 6th.190 Oath Keepers leaders communicated actively about the QRF for January 6th.191 Rhodes and another contingent of Oath Keepers stayed at the Hilton Garden Inn in
               Vienna, Virginia, and stored weapons there as well.192 
            Rhodes amassed an arsenal of military-grade assault weapons and equipment in the days
               leading up to January 6th. On December 30th, Rhodes spent approximately $7,000 on
               two night-vision devices and a weapon sight and shipped them to Marsha Lessard, a
               rally organizer who lived near Washington, DC and who had previously been in contact
               with the organizers of the Ellipse rally.193 On January 1st and 2nd, Rhodes purchased additional weapons and accessories at a
               cost of approximately $5,000.194 The following day, January 3rd, Rhodes and Kellye SoRelle departed Texas for Washington,
               DC. While traveling, Rhodes spent an additional $6,000 on an AR-style rifle and firearms
               attachments.195 Making one final shopping trip in Mississippi, Rhodes purchased $4,500 of firearms
               equipment including more sights, magazines, and weapons parts on January 4th.196
            On the morning of January 6th, with weapons stockpiled, Rhodes messaged the Signal
               group of Oath Keepers leaders: 
            We have several well equipped [sic] QRFs outside DC. And there are many, many others, from other groups, who will be
               watching and waiting on the outside in case of worst case [sic] scenarios.197
            6.5 Ready to Step in And Do What Is Needed
            Stewart Rhodess and Oath Keepers lawyer Kellye SoRelle arrived in Washington on
               the afternoon of January 5th.198 They immediately went to Freedom Plaza, where President Trump had instructed rally
               organizers to give some of his most extreme supporters time to speak.199 As a small group of Oath Keepers patrolled Freedom Plaza, they were able to see the
               results of President Trumps call to mobilize. 200 SoRelle testified that there were Oath Keepers, Proud Boys, and Alex Jones people
               mingling together in the crowd, with just a small distinction between them.201
            The Oath Keepers later found themselves at the Phoenix Park Hotel,202 where they ate and drank with a motley coalition of far-right political activists
               who were united in their shared belief in President Trumps Big Lie. 203 Among them were: Proud Boys-linked Bianca Gracia of Latinos for Trump; Joshua Macias,
               leader of Vets for Trump;204 and Amanda Chase, a Virginia State senator.205 In a livestream discussion moderated by Chase, they promoted false election fraud
               claims. Macias and Rhodes encouraged President Trump to invoke the Insurrection Act
               and call up combat veterans who are ready to step in and do what is needed.206
            SoRelle later told the Select Committee that there was discussion of going to storm
               the Capitol, although she claimed that this was normal discussion and supposedly
               did not indicate violence or any of that type of stuff.207 
            That same evening, Gracia asked SoRelle and Rhodes to follow her to a garage where
               she was supposed to meet Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio,208 who had just been released from custody and ordered to leave the DC area.209 Instead of immediately leaving Washington, DC, Tarrio instead made his way to a garage
               near the hotel where the others gathered. 210 Portions of the ensuing meeting were captured on video by documentary filmmaker Nick
               Quested and his camera crew. SoRelle claims that she was asked to attend to discuss
               Tarrios legal woes, 211 but there is evidence indicating that the conversation turned tactical.
            Tarrio discussed the courts order, informing the group he was going north to Maryland,
               so he could stay close just to make sure my guys are ok.212 Tarrio discussed his confiscated phone with Gracia. He told her that they couldnt
               get in there, apparently referencing the two-factor authentication enabled on his
               phone.213 Tarrio also appeared familiar with another attendee, Vets for Trump leader Macias,
               who rested his hand on Tarrios shoulder at various points.214 Rhodes and Tarrio shook hands.215
            Much of the substantive conversation between Rhodes, Tarrio, and the others cannot
               be heard because Tarrio asked Questeds camera crew to stop recording.216 However, some of the conversation is audible from afar and Rhodes can be heard telling
               Tarrio that he has three groups in Tysons Corner,217 a reference to the QRFs that he had mustered in the event that President Trump called
               the Oath Keepers into service.
            Tarrio later expressed appreciation for Rhodess presence at the garage meeting and
               underscored that their two organizations needed to stand together on January 6th.
               Tarrio explained that the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers are just two different groups
               and that he and Rhodes dont get along, but said that for situations like this
               where there is a need to unite regardless of our differences ... what he did today
               was commendable. 218 Tarrio added that Rhodess presence at the garage meeting was thoughtful because
               Rhodes had quickly provided security for the meeting and seemed concerned about
               Tarrios legal situation.219 In a likely nod to prior coordination between Proud Boys and Oath Keepers at other
               post-election events, Tarrio further explained that my guys have helped him [Rhodes]
               out in the past, and that he and Rhodes have mutual respect for one another. 220 Tarrio then traveled north to a hotel near Baltimore, Maryland, where he stayed through
               the events of the next day.221
            6.6 Friends of Stone
            As explained above, a constellation of far-right characters came together in late
               2020 as part of the Stop the Steal cause. Among them was Roger Stone, a right-wing
               political operative whose career as a self-trumpeted dirty trickster stretched back
               decades. Stone is arguably President Trumps oldest political advisor.222 For example, he worked for Donald Trumps independent presidential bid during the
               2000 campaign.223 In addition to his political connections, Stone cultivated relationships with far-right
               extremists, including the two groups charged with seditious conspiracy: the Oath Keepers
               and the Proud Boys. 
            The Select Committee found that at least seven members of the Oath Keepers provided
               security for Stone, or were seen with him, in the weeks immediately preceding the
               attack on the U.S. Capitol.224 Text messages released by Edward Vallejo, an Oath Keeper charged with seditious conspiracy
               and other crimes, show that Stewart Rhodes and Kelly Meggs discussed providing security
               for Stone.225 Some of these Oath Keepers guarded Stone during an event at Freedom Plaza in Washington,
               DC on the night of January 5th.226 Stone was also flanked by Oath Keepers outside of the Willard Hotel on the morning
               of January 6th.227 One of the Oath Keepers who provided security for Stone was Joshua James, who pleaded
               guilty to seditious conspiracy, obstruction of Congress and other charges in March
               2022.228 James was also reportedly seen in Stones hotel room at the Willard hours before
               the attack on the U.S. Capitol.229
            
                  Roger Stone in front of the Supreme Court on January 5, 2021 in Washington, DC.
                  Photo by Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images
               
            
            Stone has a longstanding, close relationship with the Proud Boys. Stone has taken
               the Proud Boys oath230 and repeatedly defended the group.231 Danish documentarians filmed him working with Proud Boys for years.232 In one scene, filmed in 2019, Stone warmly greets Joe Biggs, a Proud Boys leader
               central to the Capitol violence. Stone says of Biggs: My guy, right here.233 In a 2019 court case, Stone identified Enrique Tarrio as one of his volunteers, explaining
               that Tarrio had access to his phone and could post to Stones Instagram account from
               it.234 
            As mentioned above, Stone, Tarrio and another Proud Boy leader, Ethan Nordean, addressed
               an impromptu rally in Washington, DC on the night of December 11, 2020. Owen Shroyer,
               an InfoWars host, was also with them.235 We will fight to the bitter end for an honest count of the 2020 election, Stone
               told the crowd. Never give up, never quit, never surrender, and fight for America!236 A few weeks later, on January 2, 2021, Tarrio led a Proud Boys protest outside of
               Senator Marco Rubios home in Florida. The Proud Boys wanted to convince Rubio to
               vote against certification of the vote on January 6th.237 Stone reportedly called into the event to speak to Tarrios crowd.238
            One way in which Stone maintained these contacts was through a Signal chat group named
               F.O.S.  or Friends of Stone. 239 Two days after the election, Stone sent a text: We provide information several times
               a day. So please monitor the F.O.S. feed so you can act in a timely fashion.240 Ali Alexander and Stone continued to coordinate about Stop the Steal strategy and
               events between the election and January 6th.241 In addition to Alexander, Stones Friends on the Signal chat included Rhodes and
               Tarrio.242
            In July 2020, President Trump granted Stone clemency after he was convicted of lying
               to Congress and other charges.243 Then, on December 23rd, President Trump pardoned Stone.244 Several days later, at a dinner on the evening of December 27th, Stone thanked President
               Trump. In a post on Parler, Stone wrote that he thanked President Trump in person
               tonight for pardoning me and also recommended to the President that he appoint a
               special counsel to stop those who are attempting to steal the 2020 election through
               voter fraud. Stone also wrote that he wanted to ensure that Donald Trump continues
               as our president.245 Finally, he added: #StopTheSteal and #rogerstonedidnothingwrong.246 The Select Committee has learned that Stone discussed the January 6th event with
               the President, likely at this same dinner on December 27th.247 The President told Stone he was thinking of speaking.248    
            The Select Committee sought to question Roger Stone about his relationships with President
               Trump and far-right extremists, as well as other issues. During his deposition, Stone
               invoked his Fifth Amendment right nearly 90 times.249 Stone has publicly stated that he committed no wrongdoing and that he encouraged
               a peaceful protest.250 
            6.7 White Nationalists: The Capitol Siege was Fucking Awesome
            Nick Fuentes is an online provocateur who leads a white nationalist movement known
               as America First, or the Groypers. Fuentes immediately responded to President
               Trumps be wild tweet. On December 19, 2020, Fuentes wrote on Twitter: I will return
               to Washington DC to rally for President Trump on January 6th!251 Fuentes and his Groypers did return to Washington, DC for the joint session. As the
               attack was underway, Fuentes incited followers from his perch immediately outside
               of the U.S. Capitol. Some of his followers joined the attack inside, with one even
               sitting in Vice President Pences seat on the Senate dais.252 
            Fuentes and a fellow Groyper leader, Patrick Casey, rose to prominence in 2017 after
               rallying at the Charlottesville Unite the Right event.253 For years, the Groypers have repeatedly promoted white supremacist and Christian
               nationalist beliefs, often cloaked in wink-and-nod humor, puns, or religion, and they
               regularly gin up public opposition to other right-wing organizations or politicians
               whom they deem insufficiently conservative.254
            Fuentes was a key voice for Stop the Steal conspiracy theories leading up to January
               6th. He spent 2 months leading rallies in State capitals across the country,255 spreading the Big Lie and livestreaming coded calls to violence.256 He also used his livestream to raise significant funds between November 2020 and
               January 2021.257 
            On November 9, 2020, Fuentes promised, GROYPERS ARE GOING TO STOP THIS COUP!258 Two days later, Fuentes organized a Stop the Steal rally at the Michigan State
               Capitol. He told the crowd that they should be more feral in their tactics to overturn
               the election, suggesting that they target lawmakers in their homes.259 On November 14th, Fuentes rallied a crowd of his followers at the Million MAGA March
               in Washington, DC, pushing Stop the Steal conspiracies, calling for President Trump
               to rule for life, and exhorting his followers to storm every State capitol until
               January 20, 2021, until President Trump is inaugurated for 4 more years.260 
            As discussed above, Fuentes was a prominent figure at the Stop the Steal rally in
               Atlanta, Georgia, in November 2020.261 He promoted election conspiracies, criticized the Republican Party, joked about the
               Holocaust, and denounced former Vice President Biden as illegitimate.262 Fuentes also suggested his followers intimidate politicians in their homes.263
            On December 12th, Fuentes again rallied a crowd of supporters at the Stop the Steal
               events in Washington, DC, calling for the destruction of the Republican Party because
               it had failed to overturn the election.264 As others spoke at the Jericho March rally, Fuentes headlined a Stop the Steal
               protest just a few blocks away.265 
            On January 4th, Fuentes suggested that his followers kill State legislators who dont
               support efforts to overturn the 2020 election. As discussed in Chapter 2, President
               Trump and his surrogates were pressuring State legislators at the time to do just
               that. Fuentes complained that his side had no leverage. Fuentes then asked: What
               can you and I do to a state legislator, besides kill them? He then quickly added:
               Although we should not do that. I am not advising that, but I mean, what else can
               you do, right?266 
            On January 5th, Casey advertised the marches in Washington, DC on his Telegram channel
               and provided repeated updates on the logistics of getting into the city. Casey also
               spoke to his followers about the next days rally on a livestream on DLive.267 As discussed in Chapter 8, the Groypers clearly played a role in the January 6th
               attack. They even planted their flag in the inner chambers of the U.S. Capitol.268 Fuentes crowed about the attack the day after, tweeting: The Capitol Siege was fucking
               awesome and Im not going to pretend it wasnt.269 In another tweet on January 7th, Fuentes wrote: For a brief time yesterday the US Capital [sic] was once again occupied by The American
               People, before the regime wrested back control.270 
            Despite his boasts on Twitter, Fuentes exercised his Fifth Amendment privilege against
               self-incrimination and refused to provide information about his organizing activities
               to the Select Committee.271
            6.8 The Three (III%) Percenters: #OccupyCongress
            The Oath Keepers were not the only anti-government extremists who viewed President
               Trumps December 19th tweet as a call to arms. Militias around the country were similarly
               inspired to act. People were retweeting it right and left. ...  I saw people retweeting
               it, talking about, yeah, its going to be crazy, going to be a huge crowd, Michael
               Lee Wells, a militia leader in North Carolina, told the Select Committee.272  Members of militias known as the Three Percenters were electrified. 
            The Three Percenters believe that three percent of American colonists successfully
               overthrew the British during the American Revolution.273 This is not true. Far more than a tiny fraction of the colonial population fought
               in or supported the Revolutionary War.274 Regardless, this ahistorical belief has become an organizing myth for militias around
               modern-day America.  
            As with the Oath Keepers, many Three Percenters have turned against the U.S. Government,
               such that they equate it with the British monarchy and believe it should be overthrown.275 The movement does not have one, centralized hierarchy. Instead, semi-autonomous branches
               organize and run themselves.276 The Three Percenter cause was growing prior to the attack on the U.S. Capitol. Jeremy
               Liggett, a militia leader in Florida, told the Select Committee it was trendy in
               far-right circles to identify with the Three Percenter movement in the months leading
               up to January 6th.277
            President Trump tapped into this well of anti-government extremism. The Presidents
               repeated insistence that the election had been stolen resonated with militia members
               who were already inclined to believe in shady political conspiracies. The Presidents
               December 19th tweet mobilized Three Percenters around the country. Suddenly, they
               had a focal point for their anti-government beliefs: the joint session of Congress
               on January 6th. Court filings and other evidence reveal that Three Percenters immediately
               began planning for violence after President Trumps be wild announcement.    
            For example, Lucas Denney and Donald Hazard led a militia affiliated with the Three
               Percenter movement called the Patriot Boys of North Texas. Both Denney and Hazard
               were charged with assaulting officers on January 6th.278 Denney pleaded guilty and has been sentenced to 52 months in prison.279 After President Trumps tweet, they discussed travel plans, as well as the need to
               procure body armor, helmets, knuckle gloves and pepper spray.280 But they did not plan to act alone. Instead, they saw themselves as part of a coalition.
               In multiple messages, both Denney and Hazard claimed they were also affiliated with
               Proud Boys and intended to work with them on or before January 6th.281   
            Denney repeatedly cited President Trumps tweet. Trump himself is calling for a big
               protest in DC on January 6th. Im not going to miss this one, Denney told Hazard
               on December 21st.282 On December 30th, Denney wrote in a Facebook message: 
            Trump has called this himself. For everyone to come. Its the day the electoral college
               is suppose to be certified by congress to officially elect Biden. But, Pence is in
               charge of this and hes going to throw out all the votes from States that were proved
               to have fraud. Theres so much more going on behind the scenes though. Thats why
               hes called this rally for support. ... Trump will stay President ...283
            As this message indicates, Denney was well-aware of President Trumps multi-part plan
               to disrupt the transfer of power. He thought that Vice President Pence had the power
               to throw out electoral votes, just as the President demanded. In other messages,
               Denney claimed that President Trump wanted militias to descend on Washington, DC so
               they could serve as a security force against a perceived threat from Antifa and Black
               Lives Matter on January 6th. 284 
            Additional messages between the two reveal their intent to march on the U.S. Capitol.
               For instance, Denney attempted to post two banners on Facebook that advertised events
               on January 6th.285 Both banners contained the hashtag #OccupyCongress. The pictures contained images
               of the U.S. Capitol and referenced The Great Betrayal. One of them read If They
               Wont Hear Us and They Will Fear Us. In another post, Denney wrote: I cant wait
               to be in the middle of it on the front line on the 6th. 286 
            Curiously, Denney had also heard a rumor that President Trump would march with them.
               On January 4, 2021, he stated in a Facebook message:
            Things are going to be happening here. Trump is going to be speaking to everyone Wed
               [January 6] before everyone marches to the capital [sic]. Rumour [sic] has it that
               he may march with us. Ill tell you more when you get here on where to be wed and
               what time so you have the best seats. 287
            On or about January 6th, Denney sent another message via Facebook, writing: Trump
               speaking to us around 11 am then we march to the capital and after that we have special
               plans that I cant say right now over Facebook. But keep an eye out for live feed
               tomorrow from me. Tomorrow will be historic.288 Later on January 6th, during the attack, Hazard was captured on video bragging: We
               have stormed our nations capitol.289
            The Patriot Boys of North Texas were not the only Three Percenter group that mobilized
               after President Trumps tweet. The Department of Justice has alleged that multiple
               other cadres of Three Percenter militiamen prepared for violence on January 6th and
               then took part in the attack on the U.S. Capitol.
            In Florida, a Three Percenter organization known as the Guardians of Freedom established
               a B-squad for January 6th because they allegedly wanted to avoid being called a
               militia.290 These men were led by Jeremy Liggett, mentioned above.291 
            On December 24, 2020, the B-squad sent out a flyer, CALLING ALL PATRIOTS! to Washington,
               D.C.292 The flyer read: The Guardians of Freedom III% are responding to the call from President
               Donald J. Trump to assist in the security, protection, and support of the people as
               we all protest the fraudulent election and re-establish liberty for our nation. JOIN
               US &amp; Thousands of other Patriots!293 The B-Squad claimed it was the right &amp; duty of the people to alter or to abolish
               the Government.294 Its members discussed bringing tactical gear to Washington, DC.295 
            On December 30th, Liggett posted a meme to Facebook stating that 3% Will Show In
               Record Numbers In DC.296 When the Select Committee asked about this post, Liggett downplayed its significance
               or disclaimed any knowledge about other Three Percenter groups that might show in
               record numbers.297 However, on January 3, 2021, Liggett posted a safety video on Facebook in which
               he and others dressed in military gear. Liggett instructed listeners about self-defense
               and the tools they (like him) could bring to Washington, DC, including an expandable
               metal baton, a walking cane and a folding knife.298 He advised all of you Patriots going to Washington, D.C. ... to support Trump,
               and to keep up the fight.299 Several B-squad members have been charged with civil disorder and disorderly and
               disruptive conduct, which took place while rioters nearby were assaulting officers
               in the tunnel area of the Capitols Lower West Terrace on January 6th.300
            In California, another group of men associated with the Three Percenter movement quickly
               began plotting their next moves after President Trumps tweet. Alan Hostetter and
               Russell Taylor ran a non-profit known as the American Phoenix Project, which protested
               COVID-19 lockdowns and the 2020 election results, while also promoting violence ahead
               of January 6th.301 Ahead of the joint session, Hostetter and Taylor organized a small group in an encrypted
               chat they named The California Patriots  DC Brigade.302
            On December 19th, Taylor linked to President Trumps will be wild tweet and asked
               members of the chat Who is going?303 The same day, Hostetter posted a message to his Instagram account, explaining he
               was traveling to Washington, DC on January 6th because President Trump tweeted that
               all patriots should descend on Washington DC and that day is the date of the Joint
               Session of Congress in which they will either accept or reject the fake/phony/stolen
               electoral college votes.304 The next day, Taylor renamed the Telegram chat as The California Patriots-Answer
               the Call Jan 6.305 On December 29th, Taylor posted to that chat: I personally want to be on the front
               steps and be one of the first ones to breach the doors!306 
            Between December 19th and January 6th, Hostetter, Taylor and their alleged co-conspirators
               exchanged messages about bringing weapons, such as hatchets, bats, or large metal
               flashlights, as well as possibly firearms, with them to Washington, DC. 307 They were ready and willing to fight.308 In one message, Hostetter predicted that January 6th would be similar to the War
               of Independence because [t]here will likely be 3% of us again that will commit fully
               to this battle, but just as in 1776 patriots will prevail.309 
            There are additional examples of how President Trumps be wild tweet led Three Percenters
               to descend on the U.S. Capitol. One Three Percenter group issued an open letter on
               December 16, 2020, announcing that they stand ready and are standing by to answer
               the call from our President should the need arise that We The People are needed to
               take back our country from the pure evil that is conspiring to steal our country away
               from the American people. ... We will not act unless we are told to. 310 In late December, after the Presidents tweet, The Three Percenters Original (TTPO)
               issued a letter to its members announcing that this organization will be answering
               that call! 311 
            There is also additional evidence showing that militia groups like the Three Percenters
               coordinated with other groups both before and on January 6th.  Josh Ellis, the owner
               of the MyMilitia website, testified that he used Zello (a walkie-talkie app) when
               he was in Washington, DC on January 6th. The Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, other militia
               members, and regular patriots all used these Zello channels in the leadup to January
               6th and in response to President Trumps December 19th tweet. They used these channels
               to share intelligence.312
            6.9 QAnon: Operation Occupy the Capitol
            Shortly after the January 6th attack, a video of a bearded man in a Q shirt chasing
               U.S. Capitol Police Officer Ryan Goodman through the halls of the U.S. Capitol went
               viral.313 That man was Doug Jensen, a QAnon believer.314 After Jensens arrest, FBI agents asked him why he traveled from Iowa to Washington,
               DC in the first place. Trump posted make sure youre there, January 6 for the rally
               in Washington, D.C., Jensen responded. 315 
            Jensen was not the only QAnon believer to attack the U.S. Capitol on January 6th.
               The letter Q and related slogans, such as Where We Go One, We Go All, were ubiquitous
               among the rioters. They were visible on shirts, signs, and flags throughout the crowd.
               What was once a marginal digital movement had become a bricks-and-mortar force powerful
               enough to help obstruct a joint session of Congress.    
            QAnon is a bizarre and dangerous cult that gained popularity in 2017, when a person
               known only as Q began posting on 4chan, an anonymous message board.316 The poster supposedly held a Q security clearance at the Department of Energy.
               QAnon adherents believe that President Trump is a messianic figure battling the forces
               of the deep state and a Satanic pedophile ring operated by leading Democrats and
               the American elite.317 Qs first post in October 2017 predicted that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
               would be arrested in short order.318 Although that prophecy did not come to pass, the conspiracy theory evolved and grew
               over time, spreading across social media platforms and eventually finding a home in
               8kun, another anonymous message board known for trafficking in conspiracy theories
               and hate.319
            President Trump was given multiple opportunities to disavow QAnon. Instead, he essentially
               endorsed its core tenets. During an August 19, 2020, press briefing, President Trump
               was asked what he thought about the QAnon belief that he was fighting a Satanic cabal.
               I mean, you know, if I can help save the world from problems, Im willing to do it.
               Im willing to put myself out there, he replied.320 During a townhall on NBC News two weeks prior to the election, President Trump first
               claimed he knew nothing about QAnon, but he then praised its believers for being
               very strongly against pedophilia. The President emphasized: And I agree with that.
               I mean, I do agree with that.321  
            In 2020, QAnon played a significant role in spreading various election conspiracy
               theories. After the election, QAnon accounts amplified the claim that Dominion Voting
               Systems software had altered votes.322 On November 19th, President Trump tweeted and retweeted a link to a segment on One
               America News Network (OAN) that was captioned, Dominion-izing the Vote.323 The segment claimed that Dominion had switched votes from President Trump to former
               Vice President Biden. OAN featured a supposed cyber expert, Ron Watkins, a key figure
               in the QAnon conspiracy movement.324  Watkinss father, Jim, owned the 8kun site that Q called home, and Ron helped
               oversee its message boards.325 
            After promoting the OAN segment, President Trump retweeted Ron Watkinss account on
               several other occasions. On December 15, 2020, President Trump retweeted a post in
               which Watkins spread false claims of foreign influence in the election.326 Then, on January 3rd, President Trump retweeted Ron Watkinss account four more times.327 
            QAnons adherents were clearly paying attention to President Trumps words  and tweets.
               The Presidents be wild tweet was widely heard as a clarion call. Jim Watkins told
               the Select Committee that thousands and thousands of people probably agreed that
               the Presidents December 19th tweet was a call for them to come to Washington, DC.328 Jim Watkins himself marched in Washington, DC on January 6th because of the Presidents
               call, but he has not been charged with any crime.329 
            Other QAnon adherents flocked to Washington, DC in response to the Presidents call
               to action.  POTUS HAS REQUESTED YOUR ATTENDANCE Washington DC JANUARY 6TH 2021,
               Thomas Munn, a QAnon believer, posted on Facebook. Munn added: Our President has
               only asked two things from us, so far#1 Vote #2 January 6, 2021.330 Jacob Chansley, better known as the QAnon Shaman, told the FBI that he traveled from
               Arizona because President Trump had requested that all patriots come to Washington,
               DC on January 6th.331
            During the investigation, the Select Committee learned that the QAnon conspiracy theory
               often overlaps with other extremist beliefs. Stewart Rhodes of the Oath Keepers testified
               to the Select Committee that hes not a Q-tard and not a follower of Q at all.332 However, Rhodes cynically exploited QAnon for his own purposes. The Oath Keepers
               website and text messages were littered with QAnon phrases.333 Nick Quested, a filmmaker who shadowed the Proud Boys, often heard QAnon themes in
               the Proud Boys private discussions.334
            As January 6th drew closer, multiple posts on the QAnon-linked website 8kun indicated
               that violence was imminent. You can go to Washington on Jan 6 and help storm the
               Capitol, one user wrote. This same user continued: As many Patriots as can be. We
               will storm the government buildings, kill cops, kill security guards, kill federal
               employees and agents, and demand a recount.335 Other posts on 8kun debated the politicians that users should target once they got
               inside the Capitol.336
            A QAnon-inspired banner was also widely shared by groups planning events for January
               5th and 6th. The top of the image read: Operation Occupy the Capitol.  The central
               image showed the U.S. Capitol being torn in two. In the lower left corner, there appeared
               a QAnon phrase: #WeAreTheStorm.337 
            6.10 TheDonald.win: Occupy the Capitol
            Within three minutes of President Trumps tweet, a user on TheDonald.win message board
               posted: Trump Tweet. Daddy Says Be In DC on Jan. 6th.338  Moderators pinned the post to the top of the board from December 19th until January
               6th. It garnered nearly 6,000 comments and more than 24,000 upvotes during that time.339 Many of the sites users quickly interpreted President Trumps tweet as a call for
               violence. For example, one user wrote, [Trump] cant exactly openly tell you to revolt.
               This is the closest hell ever get.340 Jody Williams, the sites then-owner, testified that while users had been talking
               about traveling to Washington, DC since the election, after the tweet anything else
               was kind of shut out, and it just was going to be the 6th.341
            In the days that followed, users on TheDonald.win discussed: surrounding and occupying
               the U.S. Capitol; cutting off access tunnels used by Members of Congress; the types
               of weapons they should bring; and even how to build a hangmans gallows.342 The parallels to what transpired on January 6th are obvious.
            TheDonald.win and its predecessor site was a website for some of its namesakes most
               ardent fans. Even before President Trump was elected, his social media team monitored
               and interacted with the sites users. In the summer of 2016, then-candidate Trump
               himself engaged in a written question and answer session on TheDonald, which at the
               time was a forum on Reddit.343 This online community, which had upwards of 790,000 users, was banned by Reddit in
               mid-2020.344 However, the sites users migrated to another online location, becoming TheDonald.win.345 
            Dan Scavino, the Presidents social media guru, amplified content from this website.
               During the 2016 presidential campaign, a team in the war room at Trump Tower was
               monitoring social media trends, including TheDonald subreddit ... and privately
               communicating with the most active users to seed new trends.346 Campaign staffers monitored Twitter and TheDonald subreddit, and pushed any promising
               trends up to social media director Dan Scavino, who might give them a boost with a
               tweet. 347 In 2017, President Trump tweeted a video of himself attacking CNN.348 The video had appeared on The Donald four days earlier.349 In 2019, Politico reported that Scavino regularly monitors Reddit, with a particular focus on the
               pro-Trump /r/The_Donald channel. 350 
            
                  White House social media director Dan Scavino Jr.
                  Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
               
            
            The Select Committee sought to question Scavino about how he and others on President
               Trumps social media team interacted with The Donald subreddit and then TheDonald.win.
               But Scavino refused to cooperate with the committees subpoena.351 
            After President Trumps December 19th tweet, users on the site posted simple maps
               of the U.S. Capitol and telegraphed their intent to invade the building.352 If we occupy the capitol building, there will be no vote, one user wrote.353 The media will call us evil if we have to occupy the Capitol Building on January
               6th. Let them, another post read.354 One user argued the goal should be to surround the enemy and create [a] perimeter
               around the Capitol on January 6th, such that no one was allowed to leave until President
               Trump was re-admitted for another 4 years.355 This same user posted a diagram of the U.S. Capitols perimeter with arrows indicating
               where the Capitol Access Tunnels were located.    
            On January 5th, another user on TheDonald.win encouraged President Trumps supporters
               to be prepared to secure the capitol building, claiming that there will be plenty
               of ex military to guide you. 356 Multiple other posts made it clear that the U.S. Capitol was the target on January
               6th, with one poster writing that people should bring handcuffs and zip ties to DC,
               so they could enact citizens arrests of those officials who certified the elections
               results.357 Another post highlighted the most important map for January 6th. Form a TRUE LINE
               around the Capitol and the tunnels.358 That post included a detailed schematic of Capitol Hill with the tunnels surrounding
               the complex highlighted. 359 
            Other posts on TheDonald.win included specific plans to build gallows outside the
               U.S. Capitol. Gallows are simpler and more cost effective, plus theyre an American
               old west tradition too, one user wrote on December 22, 2020.360 A week later, another wrote: Lets construct a Gallows outside the Capitol building
               next Wednesday so the Congressmen watching from their office windows shit their pants.361 Another said that building a hanging platform in front of Congress on the 6 should
               send a strong message.362 The site hosted a diagram showing how to tie a hangmans knot,363 with one site member writing that they should build gallows so the traitors know
               the stakes.364 On January 5, 2021, hours before the attack began, a user posted an image of gallows
               and titled it, Election Fraud Repair Kit.365
            Text messages between Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller and White House Chief
               of Staff Mark Meadows show that these kinds of posts reached deep into the Presidents
               inner circle. Miller sent Meadows a text on December 30th, declaring, I got the base
               FIRED UP. 366 The thread contained a link to a TheDonald.win comment thread filled with reactions
               to a post by Miller promoting January 6th.367 Users in the thread made comments such as gallows dont require electricity, and
               that millions will bust in through the doors if they try to stop Pence from declaring
               Trump the winner, all in response to Miller.368 
            On December 19, 2020, the same day President Trump posted his inflammatory be wild
               tweet, he also tweeted a noteworthy video. The short clip was titled, FIGHT FOR TRUMP!
               - SAVE AMERICA - SAVE THE WORLD.369 The video reportedly appeared on TheDonald.win two days earlier.370 As with so much else on TheDonald.win, this refrain featured prominently on the day
               of the attack on the Capitol. During his speech at the Ellipse south of the White
               House on January 6th, the crowd broke out into a chant of Fight for Trump! Fight
               for Trump! President Trump thanked those in attendance.371 
            In the two and a half weeks since he first announced the January 6th protest, extremists
               and conspiracy theorists plotted to make the unprecedented, presidentially announced
               protest against the peaceful transfer of power wild indeed. Meanwhile, event organizers
               and White House staffers prepared for the final rally of President Trumps term. 
               
            6.11 How the White House and Rally Organizers Prepared for January 6th
            In the days following President Trumps tweet, rally organizers secured permits for
               about one dozen events in Washington, DC on January 5th and 6th.372 At 7:12 a.m., not even 6 hours after President Trumps tweet, Cindy Chafian, an executive
               at Women for America First (WFAF), emailed the National Park Service (NPS) about an
               event that had been planned to coincide with President-elect Bidens inauguration
               on January 20, 2021.373 Chafians ask was simple: Can I change the date to January 6th?374 
            WFAF was founded in 2019 by Amy and Kylie Kremer, a mother-daughter pair who were
               longtime supporters of the President.375 WFAF became a significant player in the Stop the Steal movement.376 The Kremers started a Stop the Steal Facebook group that gathered some 365,000
               members in less than 24 hours.377 Their online organizing coincided with their on-the-ground mobilization activities.
               The Kremers organized a bus tour to promote the Big Lie, in addition to events in
               Washington, DC on November 14, 2020, and December 12, 2020.378 After President Trumps December 19th tweet, the Kremers focused on January 6th.
               Kylie Kremer proudly declared their support on Twitter: The calvary [sic] is coming,
               President! JANUARY 6th | Washington, DC TrumpMarch.com #MarchForTrump #StopTheSteal.379 After the date of their permit was revised, WFAF ultimately provided President Trump
               the stage on the Ellipse where he would direct the crowd to march on the Capitol.380 
            The Kremers were not alone in responding quickly to the Presidents tweet. Ali Alexander,
               the founder of Stop the Steal, LLC,381 was eager to get ahead of other organizers. On the morning of December 19th, Alexander
               told his event planner, Everyone is trying to get the jump on us so Id like to get
               the court side of the capitol (lawn) and Id like to get capitol steps and court.382 Alexander told his event planner to grab whatever we can. All of it.383  Alexanders team did just that: they registered and launched a new website, WildProtest.com,384 which advertised planned events for January 6th under a banner that read: President
               Trump Wants You in DC January 6.385 
            Still other organizers were quick to seize on the Presidents tweet. Arina Grossu
               and Robert Weaver, co-founders of the self-proclaimed Judeo-Christian Jericho March
               organization,386 held a rally in Washington, DC on December 12, 2020. Oath Keepers leader Stewart
               Rhodes, Flynn, Jones, Alexander, and others shared a stage at that event.387 Grossu and Weaver exchanged emails just a few hours after President Trumps first
               mention of January 6th. In an email on the morning of December 19th, Weaver told Grossu
               to enjoy the peace before the storm and said, Trump has called for a protest on
               1/6, FYI.388 The Jericho Marchs website used President Trumps Be there, will be wild! language
               to advertise additional events between January 2nd and January 6, 2021.389
            Marsha Lessard, the leader of a vaccine-skeptic group, Virginia Freedom Keepers, worked
               to stage an event with Bianca Gracia, the leader of Latinos for Trump on January 6th.390 The women had ties to the Oath Keepers391 and Proud Boys,392 respectivelytwo groups central to the violence on January 6. Latinos for Trump reportedly
               advertised their January 6th event with the same QAnon-inspired banner, Operation
               Occupy the Capitol.393 Another conservative group, Moms for America, worked with Alexander before securing
               a permit for an event on January 5th.394 
            6.12 Hes Calling on You, He Needs Your Help
            As discussed above, Alex Jones was one of the loudest supporters of the Stop the
               Steal movement. Jones dedicated much of the December 20th episode of his InfoWars show to President Trumps be wild tweet, telling his listeners that nothing less
               than the fate of the American Republic was at stake. Hes calling you, he needs your help, we need your help, Jones told his audience.395 The Select Committee has learned that, between the time of the Presidents tweet
               and Joness December 20th show, Joness staff had several calls with Chafian, who
               had just procured a new permit for WFAFs event on the Ellipse.396 The two parties apparently discussed whether this newly hatched January 6th event
               was an opportunity to work together.397
            Joness broadcast also led to an influx of funds for the January 6th event at the
               Ellipse. Julie Fancelli is the billionaire heiress to the Publix supermarket fortune
               and a longtime supporter of President Trump.398 Fancelli had recently become a donor to Joness InfoWars site.399 She listened to Joness December 20th show,400 and decided she wanted to back the cause.
            Inspired by Jones and the fervor that continued to surround the Presidents tweet,
               Fancelli called Caroline Wren, a Republican fundraiser linked to the Trump Campaign,
               the next day.401 According to Wren, Fancelli said that she wanted to see a lot of people there in
               DC, so how much would that cost?402 Fancelli spoke with Joness staff and they recommended that she connect with Chafian,
               who was organizing the Ellipse rally.403 In the waning days of 2020, Fancelli and Jones spoke several times.404
            Fancelli worked with Wren to create a multimillion-dollar budget to convene as many
               supporters of President Trump as possible.405 To ensure that Fancellis dollars made maximum impact, Wren contacted some of the
               major players who were rallying supporters for January 6th. Wren emailed Kylie Kremer406 and exchanged texts with Jones407 and Chafian.408 Fancellis goal was clear: she wanted to spend $3 million to get as many people
               there as possible.409 The resulting budget allocated $500,000 to a busing program and a centralized ad
               campaign by the Tea Party Express to promote the event.410 Another $500,000 went to assisting WFAF and Jones in their organizational efforts.411
            Caroline Wren also connected with Ali Alexander. On December 29th, Wren told the Stop
               the Steal leader, I can pay for the buses and I have my team looking for available
               companies, so let me know what cities you need them in!412 Wrens offer came in response to a tweet from Alexander earlier that day: Coalition
               of us working on 25 new charter buses to bring people FOR FREE to #JAN6 #STOPTHESTEAL
               for President Trump. If you have money for more buses or have a company, let me know.
               We will list our buses sometime in the next 72 hours. STAND BACK &amp; STAND BY!413
            The final words of Alexanders tweet directly echoed President Trumps command to
               the Proud Boys during the September 29, 2020, presidential debate.414 Alexanders word choice was apt. The Proud Boys were already planning to show up
               in force, and to ensure that the crowd would be wild.
            6.13 Trump is Supposed to Order Us to the Capitol
            On the evening of December 27th, President Trump boosted the upcoming event on Twitter:
               See you in Washington, DC, on January 6th. Dont miss it. Information to follow!415 The Select Committee learned that this tweet came after the White House spoke with
               a former Trump staffer, Justin Caporale, who was asked to help produce the Ellipse
               rally.416 That same evening, the President had dinner with Donald Trump, Jr., and his girlfriend
               Kimberly Guilfoyle,417 who spoke with rally organizer Caroline Wren during the meal.418 Wren also texted Guilfoyle talking points that described her ambitions for the event,
               saying that buses of people are coming in from all over the country to support you.
               Its going to be huge, we are also adding in programming the night of January 5th.419 
            After Guilfoyles call with Wren, there was a series of calls among the senior White
               House staff,420 likely underscoring the seriousness of the White Houses interest in the event. 
            Within a few days, the White House began to take a more direct role in coordinating
               the rally at the Ellipse.421 In a December 29th text to Wren, Caporale wrote that after the Presidents planned
               speech there maybe [sic] a call to action to march to the [C]apitol and make noise.422 
            This is the earliest indication uncovered by the Select Committee that the President
               planned to call on his supporters to march on the U.S. Capitol. But it wasnt the
               last.  On January 2nd, rally organizer Katrina Pierson informed Wren that President
               Trumps Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, had said the President was going to call on
               everyone to march to the [C]apitol.423 
            Inside the White House, the Presidents intent was well-known. Cassidy Hutchinson,
               an aide to Meadows, recalled in her testimony that she overheard discussions to this
               effect toward the end of December or early January. One such discussion included an
               exchange between Meadows and Rudolph Giuliani that occurred on January 2nd.424 Hutchinson understood that President Trump wanted to have a crowd at the Capitol
               in connection with what was happening insidethe certification of the electoral count.425 Hutchinson also recalled that President Trumps allies in Congress were aware of
               the plan. During a call with members of the House Freedom Caucus, the idea of telling
               people to go to the Capitol was discussed as a way to encourage Congress to delay
               the electoral college certification and send it back to the States.426
            On January 4th, WFAFs Kylie Kremer informed Mike Lindell, the CEO of MyPillow and
               an ally of President Trump, that POTUS is going to have us march there [the Supreme
               Court]/the Capitol but emphasized that the plan stays only between us.427 
            The Stop the Steal coalition was aware of the Presidents intent. On January 5th,
               Ali Alexander sent a text to a journalist saying: Ellipse then US capitol [sic]. Trump is supposed to order us to the capitol [sic] at the end of his speech but we will see.428
            6.14 Well, I Should Walk With the People.
            President Trump wanted to personally accompany his supporters on the march from the
               Ellipse to the U.S. Capitol. During a January 4th meeting with staffers and event
               organizer Katrina Pierson, President Trump emphasized his desire to march with his
               supporters.429 Well, I should walk with the people, Pierson recalled President Trump saying.430 Though Pierson said that she did not take him seriously, she knew that he would
               absolutely want to be with the people.431 Pierson pointed out that President Trump did the drive-by the first time and the
               flyover the second time  a reference to the November and December 2020 protests
               in Washington, DC.432 During these previous events, President Trump made cameo appearances to fire up his
               supporters. Now, as January 6th approached, the President again wanted to be there,
               on the ground, as his supporters marched on the U.S. Capitol.   
            The Presidents advisors tried to talk him out of it. White House Senior Advisor Max
               Miller shot it down immediately because of concerns about the Presidents safety.433 Pierson agreed.434 But President Trump was persistent, and he floated the idea of having 10,000 National
               Guardsmen deployed to protect him and his supporters from any supposed threats by
               leftwing counter-protestors.435 Miller again rejected the Presidents idea, saying that the National Guard was not
               necessary for the event. Miller testified that there was no further conversation on
               the matter.436 After the meeting, Miller texted Pierson, Just glad we killed the national guard
               and a procession.437 That is, President Trump briefly considered having the National Guard oversee his
               procession to the U.S. Capitol. The President did not order the National Guard to
               protect the U.S. Capitol, or to secure the joint session proceedings. 
            Although his advisors tried to talk the President out of personally going, they understood
               that his supporters would be marching.438 Piersons agenda for the meeting reflected the Presidents plan for protestors to
               go to the U.S. Capitol after the rally.439 But President Trump did not give up on the idea of personally joining his supporters
               on their march, as discussed further in Chapter 7.
            6.15 POTUSLikes the Crazies.
            As Katrina Pierson helped plan the Ellipse rally, she faced another complication.
               The Stop the Steal movement played an outsized role in promoting January 6th. And
               now, as the day approached, its leading voices wanted prime speaking gigs  perhaps
               even on the same stage as President Trump. Roger Stone, Alex Jones and Ali Alexander
               were all angling for significant stage time. Pierson knew they were trouble. 
            
                  Photos of Roger Stone, Alex Jones and Ali Alexander appear on a screen during a Select
                     Committee hearing on July 12, 2022.
                  Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
               
            
            In her testimony before the Select Committee, Pierson cited several concerns, including
               that Jones and Alexander had played a prominent role in the November 2020 protest
               in Atlanta, Georgia. This was no ordinary protest. Jones and Alexander had gone into
               the Georgia Capitol with some inflammatory rhetoric, Pierson explained.440 When Pierson was asked if Jones and Alexander surrounding the governors mansion
               and going into the Capitol were the kind of thing that gave her pause, she responded:
               Absolutely. 441  After the Georgia protest, Pierson explained, the Kremers  who had helped organize
               Stop the Steal activities  distanced themselves from Jones and Alexander.442 
            But there was an additional problem. President Trump wanted to include the Stop the
               Steal leaders in the January 6th event. As Pierson put it in a text message to Kylie
               Kremer: POTUS ... likes the crazies.443  Pierson said that she believed this was the case because President Trump loved
               people who viciously defended him in public.444 But their vicious defenses of the President clearly troubled Pierson. 
            Pierson tried to trim the speaker lineup  which still included the Stop the Steal
               trio of Stone, Jones, and Alexander. She was initially vetoed by the White House after
               Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications Dan Scavino,445 who had approved the original psycho list.446 At one point, she texted Scavinos boss, Mark Meadows, saying: Things have gotten
               crazy and I desperately need some direction.447 She was concerned by the possibility of crazy people being included in the event,
               their incendiary role in Georgia, and the fact that people coming to Washington, DC
               were planning to protest at the U.S. Capitol.448 
            Meadows told Pierson that she should take control of the situation and remove the
               possibility of controversial speakers.449 Pierson agreed to do so.450 But the President remained an obstacle. During their January 4th meeting, Pierson
               tried to convince President Trump to minimize the role of these potentially explosive
               figures at the Ellipse. She offered to place them at a planned event the night before
               in Freedom Plaza or on other stages in DC on January 6th. She told the President to
               [k]eep the fringe on the fringe 451 and advised him to [e]liminate convicted felons that could damage other speakers.452 
            President Trump was still unwilling to remove them from the lineup entirely. The President
               instructed Pierson to give Stone a speaking slot on January 5th and asked for more
               information about Ali Alexander.453 After discussing the matter with Scavino, President Trump also requested that Alexander
               be given a speaking slot. President Trump brought up Ali [Alexander] ... just keep
               him on stage not associated with POTUS or main event, Scavino wrote.454
            In the end, the Stop the Steal leaders  Stone, Jones and Alexander  did not appear
               on the stage at the Ellipse on January 6th, although they did speak at other planned
               events, consistent with the Presidents request about Alexander. POTUS expectations
               are [to have something] intimate and then send everyone over to the Capitol, Pierson
               explained in a text message to Justin Caporale and Taylor Budowich.455 Caporale redacted this text and others in his early production of documents to the
               Select Committee, and he only revealed them after they had already been produced by
               other witnesses.456
            However, other incendiary voices  in addition to President Trumps  were given time
               on the Ellipse stage. The Select Committee learned that President Trumps aides warned
               him against the inclusion of figures like John Eastman457 and Rudolph Giuliani,458 given their false claims about election fraud.459 Both men, of course, ended up sharing a stage with him on January 6th.460 Meadows himself directed that they be allowed to speak.461
            6.16 January 5, 2021: Fort Trump 
            While the Stop the Steal coalition was not given speaking slots on the Ellipse stage
               on January 6th, its leaders had plenty of opportunities to speak the day before. And
               they used their platforms to rile up the crowd in Washington, DC in advance of the
               joint session. 
            Ali Alexander spoke at an event sponsored by Moms for America in front of the U.S.
               Capitol. Alexander claimed that he was honored to be sharing the same stage with President
               Trump the following day, even though behind the scenes his appearance had been nixed.462 
            We must rebel, Alexander told rallygoers. Im not even sure if Im going to leave
               D.C. We might make this Fort Trump, right? Alexander said, while standing in front
               of the U.S. Capitol. Were going to keep fighting for you, Mr. President.463 On his Twitter account, Alexander also spread the idea that President Trumps supporters
               should occupy areas of Washington, DC, using the phrases and hashtags such as Fort
               Trump and #OccupyDC.464
            Alex Jones and Roger Stone spoke at a separate event hosted by Virginia Women for
               Trump in front of the Supreme Court.465 The event, named the One Nation Under God prayer rally, was cohosted by the American
               Phoenix Project  the Three Percenter-linked group run by Alan Hostetter and Russel
               Taylor, discussed above, which is charged with conspiracy to obstruct an official
               proceeding. 466
            Jones repeated his claims about the election being stolen, claiming that those in
               attendance stood against a Satanic world government. 467 Stone led a Stop the Steal chant, claiming the evidence of election fraud is not
               only growing, it is overwhelming, and it is compelling. President Trump won the
               majority of the legal votes cast and President Trump won this election, Stone said.
               Nothing less than the fate of Western Civilization was at stake, according to Stone:
               
            Lets be very clear. This is not fight between Republicans and Democrats. This is
               not a fight between liberals and conservatives. This is a fight for the future the
               United States of America. It is a fight for the future of Western Civilization as
               we know it. Its a fight between dark and light. Its a fight between the godly and
               the godless. Its a fight between good and evil. And we dare not fail, or we will
               step out into one thousand years of darkness. 468
            Stone claimed that they renounce violence and those on the left  ...  are the
               violent ones. But he insisted that nothing is over until we say it is, and Victory
               will be ours. 469
            Both Taylor and Hostetter spoke as well. Hostetter told the crowd, We are at war.470 Taylor promised to fight and bleed, vowing that Patriot[s] would not return
               to our peaceful way of life until this election is made right.471
            A long rally was also hosted at Freedom Plaza, an open-air space on Pennsylvania Avenue
               in Washington, DC. It is a symbolic protest site, standing in the direct line between
               the White House and the U.S. Capitol. Stone, Jones and Alexander all appeared at Freedom
               Plaza on the evening of January 5th. Their remarks were incendiary.  
            Stone repeated his apocalyptic language from earlier in the day, claiming that rallygoers
               were embroiled in an epic struggle for the future of this country between dark and
               light.472 I want them to know that 1776 is always an option, Ali Alexander said. These degenerates
               in the deep state are going to give us what we want, or we are going to shut this
               country down.473 When Alex Jones took to the stage, he screamed at the crowd: Its 1776!474
            Another speaker that evening was Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn (ret.). Tomorrow, tomorrow,
               trust me, the American people that are standing on the soil that we are standing on
               tonight, and theyre going to be standing on this soil tomorrow, this is soil that
               we have fought over, fought for, and we will fight for in the future, Flynn also
               told the crowd. Flynn addressed Members of Congress, saying those of you who are
               feeling weak tonight, those of you that dont have the moral fiber in your body, get
               some tonight because tomorrow, we the people are going to be here, and we want you
               to know that we will not stand for a lie.  We will not stand for a lie.475
            6.17 Together, We Will STOP THE STEAL.
            On the evening of January 5th, the President edited the speech he would deliver the
               next day at the Ellipse. The Presidents speechwriting team had only started working
               on his remarks the day before.476  Despite concerns from the speechwriting team, unfounded claims coming from Giuliani
               and others made their way into the draft. 477
            The initial draft circulated on January 5th emphasized that the crowd would march
               to the U.S. Capitol.478  Based on what they had heard from others in the White House, the speechwriting team
               expected President Trump to use his address to tell people to go to the Capitol.479
            That evening, President Trump convened an impromptu gathering in the Oval Office with
               members of his staff, primarily his press team480 and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Dan Scavino, who was in charge of President
               Trumps personal Twitter account.481 Despite the bitter cold, the President ordered his staff to keep the door to the
               Rose Garden open so he could hear the music and cheering from his supporters at Freedom
               Plaza.482 The music playing at Freedom Plaza was so loud you could feel it shaking in the
               Oval.483
            
                  President Trump and members of his staff in the Oval Office on the evening of January
                     5, 2021.
                  Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration.
               
            
            As President Trump listened, he was tweeting, at one point telling his supporters
               he could hear them from the Oval Office.484 His speechwriters incorporated those tweets into a second draft of the speech that
               was circulated later that evening.485 The following appeared in both tweet form486 and was adapted into the speech: 
            All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened
               Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had enough, they wont take it anymore! Together,
               we will STOP THE STEAL.487 
            In speaking with staff, he still seemed optimistic that Congress would take some
               sort of action in his favor.488 The White House photographer, who was also in attendance, recalled that President
               Trump again remarked that he should go to the Capitol the next day, and even asked
               about the best route to get there.489 The President peppered staff for ideas concerning how we could make the RINOs do
               the right thing and make the next day big.490 Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Matthews, who was present in the Oval Office that evening,
               understood that President Trump wanted to get Republican Members of Congress to send
               the electoral votes back to the States, rather than certify the election.491 Matthews recalled that initially no one spoke up in response, since they were trying
               to process what he had said.492 
            Eventually, Deere suggested that President Trump should focus his speech on his administrations
               accomplishments, rather than on his claim that the election had been stolen.493 But the President told Deere that while they had accomplished a lot, the crowd was
               going to be fired up and angry the next day because they believed the election
               had been stolen and was rigged.494 President Trump knew the crowd was angry because he could hear them.495 Of course, President Trump was responsible, more than any other party, for ginning
               up their anger. 
            President Trump ended the evening by asking an aide how many people were going to
               be at the rally. The aide responded that he was not sure but told President Trump
               that he saw videos on Twitter of pro-trump people chanting on planes heading to DC,
               which he asked to be shared with Scavino.496 
            We will not let them silence your voices, the President told the crowd from the
               podium at the Ellipse. Were not going to let it happen, Im not going to let it
               happen. 497 His supporters started chanting, fight for Trump!  The President thanked them.498 
            President Trump knew not only that his supporters were angry, but also that some of
               them were armed.499 At times, he ad-libbed, deliberately stoking their rage even more. At one point he
               said: And we fight. We fight like hell. And if you dont fight like hell, youre
               not going to have a country anymore.500 The word fight, or a variation thereof, appeared only twice in the prepared text.501 President Trump would go on to utter the word twenty times during his speech at the
               Ellipse.502
            President Trump had summoned a mob, including armed extremists and conspiracy theorists,
               to Washington, DC on the day the joint session of Congress was to meet. He then told
               that same mob to march on the U.S. Capitol and fight. They clearly got the message.
               
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 62.
               2.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 27,62; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Michael Pompeo, (Aug. 9, 2022), p. 30; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eugene Scalia, (June
                  30, 2022), p. 11.
               3.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eugene Scalia, (June 30, 2022), p. 11. Others throughout
                  the White House similarly recognized that December 14 was a milestone in Americas
                  constitutional process, and it was time for the President to move on. But it was not
                  just members of President Trumps Cabinet who viewed that the election was over, and
                  that President Trump had lost by December 14President Trumps top advisors at the
                  White House came to similar conclusions.  For example, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone
                  agreed with Senator McConnells December 15th comments on the Senate floor and viewed
                  the process for challenging the election as done. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 73.
                  White House Deputy Press Secretary and Deputy Assistant to the President Judd Deere
                  also recognized the significance of the electoral college vote in determining the
                  president and vice president and conveyed this to President Trump. He also advised
                  him to concede. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 23-25. White House Advisor Ivanka
                  Trump viewed the electoral college vote as important and had already started planning
                  for leaving the administration prior to then. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 193. White House Advisor
                  Jared Kushner similarly viewed that day as significant. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Jared
                  Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), p. 107.
               4.  President Trumps full tweet read: Peter Navarro releases 36-page report alleging
                  election fraud more than sufficient to swing victory to Trump https://t.co/D8KrMHnFdK. A great report by Peter. Statistically impossible to have lost the 2020 Election.
                  Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild! President Donald J. Trump:
                  Tweets of December 19, 2020, The American Presidency Project, available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-december-19-2020.
               5.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of J. Smith, (May 9, 2022), p. 79.
                  Navaroli appeared for two deposition session with the Select Committee, the first
                  of which was conducted anonymously to protect her identity. In this deposition session,
                  she was called J. Smith. She later agreed to put her name in the record and sat
                  for another round of questioning. Testimony from that second session is referred to
                  as Deposition of Anika Navaroli.
               6.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Anika Navaroli, (Sept. 1, 2022),
                  pp. 66-67. She went on to characterize the tweet as an RSVP card that became a rallying
                  point for the Presidents supporters, one that prompted violent responses from users
                  that were highly suggestive of the coming violence targeting DC on January 6th. Id., at p. 64. Another former Twitter employee, whose deposition was also conducted anonymously,
                  testified that the tweet in many ways kind of crystallized the plans for violence
                  and that, after that point, supporters of President Trump began tweeting about movements
                  to D.C. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of J. Johnson, (Sept. 7, 2022), p.
                  55.
               7.  The Presidents call to action quickly reverberated beyond Twitter and spread across
                  the internet. On one social networking site, Discord, a forum called DonaldsArmy.US
                  erupted in the hours after the tweet, with users seeing it as a call to action and
                  beginning to organize travel plans to D.C., including by discussing how and whether
                  to evade DC gun restrictions and bring firearms into the city. See Summary Memorandum from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. Briefing with Discord, (July 29, 2022); see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Discord Production), JAN6C_DIS_000269 (Memo from Discord
                  titled DonaldsArmy.US and BASEDMedia.).
               8.  Second Superseding Indictment at  28, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               9.  See, e.g., Ian Ward, How a D.C. Bar Became the Haven for the Proud Boys, Politico, (Dec. 14, 2020), available at https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2020/12/14/harrys-bar-proud-boys-washington-dc-445015. 
               10.  Second Superseding Indictment at 37, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305 (citing Tarrios message to
                  the Proud Boys on December 29, 2020, that they would "not be wearing our traditional
                  Black and Yellow" on January 6th; they would "be incognito.").
               11.  Second Superseding Indictment at  50, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               12.  Second Superseding Indictment at  100, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022),
                  pp. 83-84.
               14.  Second Superseding Indictment at  107, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               15.  See, e.g., Mike Levine, How A Standoff in Nevada Years Ago Set The Militia Movement on A Crash
                  Course with The US Capitol, ABC News, (Jan. 5, 2022), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/standoff-nevada-years-ago-set-militia-movement-crash/story?id=82051940. 
               16.  Indictment at  67, 68, United States v. Rhodes, III, et al., No. 22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               17.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 22,
                  2022), pp. 132,134; Stewart Rhodes and Kellye SoRelle, Open Letter to President Trump:
                  You Must Use the Insurrection Act to Stop the Steal and Defeat the Coup, Oathkeepers.org,
                  (Dec. 14, 2020), available at  https://web.archive.org/web/20210123133022/https:/oathkeepers.org/2020/12/open-letter-to-president-trump-you-must-use-insurrection-act-to-stop-the-steal-and-defeat-the-coup/ (archived). Jason Van Tatenhove, the former spokesman of the Oath Keepers described how he suspected
                  that Rhodes saw the Insurrection Act as a blank check: He could pretty much do whatever
                  he wanted, and [President Trump] could install Stewart and the Oath Keepers as some
                  sort of security force that would bring them real legitimacy and political power.
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Jason Van Tatenhove,
                  (Mar. 9, 2022), p. 73.
               18.  Third Superseding Indictment at  37, United States v. Crowl et al., No.  1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C., Mar. 31, 2021), ECF No. 127.
               19.  Third Superseding Indictment at  95-99, United States v. Crowl et al., No. 1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C., Mar. 31, 2021), ECF No. 127.
               20.  Trial Transcript at 10502-508, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2022); Alan Feuer and Zach Montague, Oath Keepers
                  Leader Convicted of Sedition in Landmark Jan. 6 Case, New York Times, (Nov. 29, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/29/us/politics/oath-keepers-trial-verdict-jan-6.html.
               21.  18 U.S.C.  2384.
               22.  For example, one Proud Boy, Jeremy Bertino, pleaded guilty to seditious conspiracy
                  and other crimes in October 2022. Bertino admitted to authorities that the Proud Boys
                  traveled to Washington on January 6, 2021, to stop the certification of the Electoral
                  College Vote. They were willing to do whatever it would take, including using force
                  against police and others, to achieve that objective. See Former Leader of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy for Efforts to
                  Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice,
                  (Oct. 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power. 
               23.  Criminal Complaint at 10-11, United States v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               24.  See, e.g., Indictment at  34-37, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               25.  Malachi Barrett, Far-Right Activist Who Encouraged U.S. Capitol Occupation Also
                  Organized Stop the Steal Rally in Michigan, Mlive, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://www.mlive.com/politics/2021/01/far-right-activist-who-encouraged-us-capitol-occupation-also-organized-stop-the-steal-rally-in-michigan.html. 
               26.  Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021 10:56 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://web.archive.org/web/20210107185745/https://twitter.com/NickJFuentes/status/1347255833516765185  (archived). 
               27.  Ken Dilanian and Ben Collins, There Are Hundreds of Posts About Plans to Attack
                  the Capitol. Why Hasnt This Evidence Been Used in Court?, NBC News, (Apr. 20, 2021),
                  available at https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/we-found-hundreds-posts-about-plans-attack-capitol-why-aren-n1264291. 
               28.  Statement of Mike Rothschild, (Mar. 23, 2022), at pp. 3-6.
               29.  See, NCRI Assessment of The Capitol Riots, Rutgers Miller Center for Community Protection
                  and Resilience, Network Contagion Research Institute, (Jan. 9, 2021) available at
                  https://millercenter.rutgers.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/NCRI-Assessment-of-the-Capitol-Riots-1.pdf. 
               30.  Breaking: Trump Calls for Americans to March on DC January 6 to Stop Foreign Takeover,
                  InfoWars, (Dec. 19, 2020), (archived) available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201219175757/https://www.infowars.com/posts/breaking-trump-calls-for-americans-to-march-on-dc-january-6-to-stop-foreign-takeover/. 
               31.  Jacob Knutson, Jury Orders Alex Jones to Pay Nearly $1 Billion in Sandy Hook Defamation
                  Trial, Axios, (Oct. 12, 2022), available at https://www.axios.com/2022/10/12/alex-jones-sandy-hook-defamation-trial. 
               32.  The Alex Jones Show, Prison Planet TV, at 21:53, Dec. 20, 2020, available at http://tv.infowars.com/index/display/id/11151. 
               33.  Joness promotion of the January 6th event began almost immediately after the Presidents
                  tweet. See The Alex Jones Show, January 6th Will Be a Turning Point in American History, Banned.Video, at 16:29, Dec. 31, 2020,
                  available at https://banned.video/watch?id=5fee715284a7b6210e12a2f7. 
               34.  See, Lena V. Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed, and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw
                  During the Attack on the Capitol, Pro Publica, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at  https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/?id=5OCkdwJRD0a3 (showing Alex Jones marching down Pennsylvania Avenue at 1:10 p.m.).
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021),
                  pp. 50, 70-71.
               36.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022),
                  p. 86.
               37.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson,
                  (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 32-33, 41; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June
                  20, 2022), pp. 107-108, 135.
               38.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022),
                  pp. 70-71.
               39.  Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Committee on Rules
                  and Administration,  117th Congress, Examining the U.S. Capitol Attack: A Review
                  of the Security, Planning, and Response Failures on January 6 (Staff Report), (June
                  8, 2021), p. B-22.
               40.  Rob Kuznia, Curt Devine, Nelli Black, and Drew Grin, Stop the Steals Massive Disinformation
                  Campaign Connected to Roger Stone and Steve Bannon, CNN Business, (Nov. 14, 2020),
                  available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/13/business/stop-the-steal-disinformation-campaign-invs/index.html. 
               41.  Charles Homans, How Stop the Steal Captured the American Right, New York Times, (July 19, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/19/magazine/stop-the-steal.html. (During his time as a Trump campaign adviser, Stone urged the candidate to run
                  on immigration, and now he linked these views to the plots that he claimed were afoot
                  to deny Trump the nomination. In the Republican primaries, Trump was a nationalist
                  in a field of globalists, Stone said in an interview that April with Stefan Molyneux,
                  a Canadian alt-right podcaster. If the globalists failed to steal the primaries outright,
                  there would be a naked attempt to steal this from Donald Trump at the Republican
                  National Convention in Cleveland, Stone declared. The fix is in.)
               42.  Rob Kuznia, Curt Devine, Nelli Black, and Drew Grin, Stop the Steals Massive Disinformation
                  Campaign Connected to Roger Stone and Steve Bannon, CNN Business, (Nov. 14, 2020),
                  available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/13/business/stop-the-steal-disinformation-campaign-invs/index.html.
               43.  Rob Kuznia, Curt Devine, Nelli Black, and Drew Grin, Stop the Steals Massive Disinformation
                  Campaign Connected to Roger Stone and Steve Bannon, CNN Business, (Nov. 14, 2020),
                  available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/13/business/stop-the-steal-disinformation-campaign-invs/index.html.
               44.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video file 201105.
               45.  See, Hugo Lowell, Film Offers Inside Look at Roger Stones Stop the Steal Efforts
                  before January 6, The Guardian, (July 8, 2022), available at https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/jul/07/roger-stone-ali-alexander-film-jan-6-stop-the-steal. 
               46.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Ali Alexander, (Jan. 9, 2021),
                  p. 18.
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Ali Alexander, (Dec. 9, 2021),
                  pp. 199-200.
               48.  See, e.g., WillfulWarrior, Hispanic Proud Boys Leader: We Fought Off Antifa Terrorists for
                  12 Hrs, BitChute, Nov. 19, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/if5u7EuD7NU3/; Infowars: War Room, Enrique Tarrio Spat on While Flying to Austin Texas, BitChute,
                  Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/yKijHk6m25RL/; BNN, Full Show: Witnesses Testify on Michigan Voter Fraud; Thousands of Illegal
                  Votes Counted for Biden, BitChute, Dec. 2, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/74N0WNHOjiRy/; Jan 6th Protest and Save America March (2020-2H), Patriots Plot Their Recapture
                  of America in D.C. This Weekend, Banned.Video, Nov. 9, 2020, available at https://archive.org/details/banned.video_-_jan_6th_protest_and_save_america_march_2020-2h/2020-11-11T02%3A07.148Z+-+Patriots+Plot+Their+Recapture+Of+America+In+D.C.+This+Weekend/2020-11-11T02%3A19%3A07.148Z+-+%20Patriots+Plot+Their+Recapture+Of+America+In+D.C.+This+Weekend.mp4 (archived); The Alex Jones Show, Oathkeepers Founder: Americans Need to Overcome
                  Their Fears And Join The March on DC, Banned.Video, Nov. 10, 2020, available at https://freeworldnews.tv/watch?id=5fab1b880ad7422090a8242f. 
               49.  Kellye SoRelle, a lawyer for the Oath Keepers, described Stone (along with Alexander)
                  as among the key players who were the midpoint, the ones who tr[ied] to orchestrate
                  joint efforts in the post-election period. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022),
                  pp. 60-66.
               50.  Frontline, Alex Jones and Donald Trump: How the Candidate Echoed the Conspiracy
                  Theorist on the Campaign Trail, PBS, (July 28, 2020), available at https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/article/alex-jones-and-donald-trump-how-the-candidate-echoed-the-conspiracy-theorist-on-the-campaign-trail/. 
               51.  Eric Bradner, Trump Praises 9/11 Truthers Amazing Reputation, CNN, (Dec. 2,
                  2015), available at https://www.cnn.com/2015/12/02/politics/donald-trump-praises-9-11-truther-alex-jones. 
               52.  See Elizabeth Williamson, Alex Jones and Donald Trump: A Fateful Alliance Draws Scrutiny,
                  New York Times, (Mar. 7, 2022), available at  https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/07/us/politics/alex-jones-jan-6-trump.html (Infowars grossed more than $50 million annually during the Trump presidency by
                  selling diet supplements, body armor, and other products on its website.).
               53.  See, e.g., Joshua Zitser, Roger Stone Makes Donation Plea for Alex Jones After Verdict Says
                  He Must Pay $49m for Sandy Hook Hoax Claims, Business Insider, (Aug. 7, 2022), available at https://www.businessinsider.com/video-roger-stone-asks-donations-infowars-alex-jones-sandy-hook-2022-8. 
               54.  See AirTable Collection from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol, Images of State Protests before January 6, 2021.
               55.  See AirTable Collection from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol, Images of State Protests before January 6, 2021.
               56.  See AirTable Collection from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol, Images of State Protests before January 6, 2021.
               57.  See AirTable Collection from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol, Images of State Protests before January 6, 2021.
               58.  Jonathan Oosting, FBI arrests Ryan Kelley, Michigan GOP Governor Candidate, over
                  Capitol Riots, Bridge Michigan, (June 9, 2022), available at https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/fbi-arrests-ryan-kelley-michigan-gop-governor-candidate-over-capitol-riots. 
               59.  James Dawson, Unmasked Protesters Push Past Police into Idaho Lawmakers Session,
                  NPR, (Apr. 25, 2022), available at https://www.npr.org/2020/08/25/905785548/unmasked-protesters-push-past-police-into-idaho-lawmakers-session; Jeremy Stiles, Boise Woman Sentenced for Role in U.S. Capitol Riot, KTVB, (May
                  24, 2022), available at https://www.ktvb.com/article/news/crime/boise-woman-sentenced-for-role-in-us-capitol-riot-pamela-hemphill-january-6-2021/277-3aa12194-5a54-4abe-88a2-d644cf5043aa. 
               60.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Sergeant at Arms for the Arizona House of Representatives
                  Production), CTRL0000930907, CTRL0000930908 (December 4, 2020, surveillance footage
                  from the Arizona House of Representatives). available at https://house.app.box.com/folder/183317506767.
               61.  Sergio Olmos and Conrad Wilson, At Least 3 Men from Oregon Protest Appear to Have
                  Joined Insurrection at U.S. Capitol, Oregon Public Broadcasting, (Jan. 10, 2021),
                  available at https://www.opb.org/article/2021/01/10/oregon-washington-protest-insurrection-david-anthony-medina-tim-davis/. 
               62.  Brendan Guttenschwager (@BGOnTheScene), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 1:03 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/BGOnTheScene/status/1329485442165706752. 
               63.  Justwanna Grill, Oathkeepers leader GROYPED in Atlanta, YouTube, Nov. 4, 2020,
                  available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_rDOm5oKu0. 
               64.  Timothy Johnson, Alex Jones Calls on Supporters to Surround the Georgia Governors
                  Mansion to Prevent Election Results from Being Certified, Media Matters, (Nov. 17,
                  2020), available at https://www.mediamatters.org/alex-jones/alex-jones-calls-supporters-surround-georgia-governors-mansion-prevent-election-results. 
               65.  Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes), Twitter, Nov. 17, 2020, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201120061341/https://twitter.com/NickJFuentes (archived).
               66.  See, e.g., Aquarium Groyper, Nick Fuentes Georgia State Capitol 11/20/2020, YouTube, Nov.
                  20, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OS1f--Tkn1M. 
               67.  Jacqueline Alemany et al., Red Flags, Washington Post, (Oct. 31, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/interactive/2021/warnings-jan-6-insurrection/. 
               68.  Derrick Mullins, Stop the Steal Connected 2 Roger Stone-Roger Stone Calls Ali
                  Anderson in Front of Atlanta GA Crowd, YouTube Nov. 24, 2020, available at https://perma.cc/MWS3-HNGD.
               69.  Brendan Gutenschwager (@BGOnTheScene), Twitter, Nov. 20, 2022 12:38 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/BGOnTheScene/status/1329841457377800198. 
               70.  Zach D. Roberts (@zdroberts), Twitter, Jan. 14, 2022 11:38 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/zdroberts/status/1482210446769807360. 
               71.  Alexandra Hurtzler, Alex Jones Leads Stop the Steal Rally at Georgias Capitol
                  to Protest Election Results, Newsweek, (Nov. 18, 2020), available at https://www.newsweek.com/alex-jones-leads-stop-steal-rally-georgias-capitol-protest-election-results-1548533. 
               72.  Jacqueline Alemany et al., Red Flags, Washington Post, (Oct. 31, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/interactive/2021/warnings-jan-6-insurrection/.
               73.  Statement of Andrew Seidel, (Mar. 18, 2022), at p. 9.
               74.  Mike Giglio, The Oath Keepers Radical Legal Defense of January 6th, New Yorker, (Oct. 1, 2022), available at https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-oath-keepers-radical-legal-defense-of-january-6th. 
               75.  Pro-Trump Rallies in DC Attract Extremists &amp; Erupt into Violence, Anti-Defamation
                  League, (Dec. 13, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/blog/pro-trump-rallies-in-dc-attract-extremists-erupt-into-violence. Despite this, one of the organizers of the Jericho March maintained that the tone
                  of the rally was supposed to be prayerful, spirit-filled, peaceful, joyful, and vibrant,
                  a unified celebration. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Arina Grossu, (Apr.
                  29, 2022), p. 40.
               76.  See President Donald J. Trump: Tweets of December 12, 2020, The American Presidency Project,
                  available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-december-19-2020.
               77.  Pro-Trump Rallies in DC Attract Extremists &amp; Erupt into Violence, Anti-Defamation
                  League, (Dec. 13, 2020), available at http://www.adl.org/blog/pro-trump-rallies-in-DC-attract-extremists-erupt-into-violence. 
               78.  Grace Segers, Trumps Motorcade Passes Supporters Gathered for Million MAGA March,
                  CBS News, (Nov. 14, 2020), available at https://www.cbsnews.com/news/million-maga-march-washington-dc-trumps-motorcade-passes-supporters/. 
               79.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec. 12, 2020 9:59 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Wow%21+Thousands+of+people+forming%22 (archived).
               80.  Ashraf Khalil, Marine One Buzzes Trump Supporters Rallying for Presidents Bid to
                  Stay in Office in Washington, Chicago Tribune, (Dec. 12, 2020), available at https://www.chicagotribune.com/election-2020/ct-trump-election-20201212-z4zwtovupzhsppphzrlfhj3i3a-story.html. 
               81.  Breaking: Trump Calls for Americans to March on DC January 6 to Stop Foreign Takeover,
                  InfoWars, (Dec. 19, 2020), available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201219175757/https://www.infowars.com/posts/breaking-trump-calls-for-americans-to-march-on-dc-january-6-to-stop-foreign-takeover/ (archived).
               82.  The Alex Jones Show, Prison Planet TV, Dec. 20, 2020, available at http://tv.infowars.com/index/display/id/11151. 
               83.  The Alex Jones Show, Prison Planet TV, Dec. 20, 2020, at 1:27:13, available at
                  http://tv.infowars.com/index/display/id/11151.
               84.  The Alex Jones Show, January 6th Will Be a Turning Point in American History, Banned.Video, at 16:29, Dec. 31, 2020,
                  available at https://banned.video/watch?id=5fee715284a7b6210e12a2f7. 
               85.  Proud Boys, Anti-Defamation League, (Jan. 23, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/proudboys. 
               86.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Proud Boys International Production), PBI 12 (The Constitution
                  and Bylaws of Proud Boys International L.L.C., revised November 24, 2018). 
               87.  Proud Boys, Stanford University Center for International Security and Cooperation,
                  (January 2022), available at https://cisac.fsi.stanford.edu/mappingmilitants/profiles/proud-boys.  
               88.  Proud Boys, Stanford University Center for International Security and Cooperation,
                  (January 2022), available at https://cisac.fsi.stanford.edu/mappingmilitants/profiles/proud-boys.
               89.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jay Thaxton Production), CTRL0000055644, (December 27-28,
                  2020, Ministry of Self Defense, Telegram messages from 7:43 p.m.-1:53 a.m.); Proud
                  Boys, Stanford University Center for International Security and Cooperation, (January
                  2022), available at https://cisac.fsi.stanford.edu/mappingmilitants/profiles/proud-boys.
               90.  See, e.g., Jason Wilson, Portland Rally: Proud Boys Vow to March Each Month after Biggest
                  Protest of Trump Era, The Guardian, (Aug. 17, 2019), available at https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/aug/17/portland-oregon-far-right-rally-proud-boys-antifa. 
               91.  See Statement of Heidi L. Beirich, Ph.D., (Mar. 22, 2022), at p.1.
               92.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of George Meza, (Mar. 16, 2022), p. 155. 
               93.  See, e.g., Cleve R. Wootson Jr., Thousands of Proud Boys Plan to Rally in Portland, Setting
                  Up Another Clash in a Combustible City, Washington Post, (Sept. 25, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2020/09/25/portland-oregon-proud-boys-rally/; see also, Aaron Wolfson and Hampton Stall, Actor Profile: Proud Boys, Armed Conflict Location
                  &amp; Event Data Project, (Apr. 22, 2021), available at https://acleddata.com/2021/04/22/actor-profile-proud-boys/ (noting the percentage of events with counter-demonstrators in which Proud Boys
                  members participated was more than 10 times the rate at which others engaged with
                  counter-demonstrators.).
               94.  Nick Quested, a filmmaker who followed the Proud Boys through January 6th, described
                  how Proud Boys couldnt define Black Lives Matter or Antifaand that, in person, Proud
                  Boys simply identified them as people of color and people with progressive values.
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 78. 
               95.  Kathleen Ronayne and Michael Kunzelman, Trump to Far-Right Extremists: Stand Back
                  and Stand By, Associated Press, (Sept. 30, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-race-and-ethnicity-donald-trump-chris-wallace-0b32339da25fbc9e8b7c7c7066a1db0f. 
               96.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 117.
               97.  Emails obtained by the Select Committee show that Parler featured alarmingly violent
                  and specific posts that in some cases advocated for civil war. See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Parler Production), PARLER_00000006 (December 24, 2020,
                  email forwarded to the FBI, We need to mass an armed force of American Patriots 150,000
                  on the Virginia side of the Potomac prepared to react to the congressional events
                  of January 6th). In a January 2, 2021, email, a Parler employee wrote that they were
                  concerned about Wednesday, which would be January 6th. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Parler Production), PARLER_00000009 (January 2, 2021,
                  email forwarded to the FBI, One more from same account. More where came from. Concerned
                  about Wednesday...).
               98.  Atlantic Councils DFRLab, #StopTheSteal: Timeline of Social Media and Extremist
                  Activities Leading to 1/6 Insurrection, Just Security, (Feb. 10, 2021), available
                  at https://www.justsecurity.org/74622/stopthesteal-timeline-of-social-media-and-extremist-activities-leading-to-1-6-insurrection/. 
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 38; see also Former Leader of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy for Efforts to
                  Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice,
                  (Oct. 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power.mer-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power. 
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 50-51, 221-22; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of George
                  Meza, (Mar. 16, 2022), pp. 21-22.
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 221. 
               102.  Tom Dreisbach, Conspiracy Charges Bring Proud Boys History Of Violence into Spotlight,
                  NPR, (Apr. 9, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/04/09/985104612/conspiracy-charges-bring-proud-boys-history-of-violence-into-spotlight.  
               103.  Tom Dreisbach, Conspiracy Charges Bring Proud Boys History Of Violence into Spotlight,
                  NPR, (Apr. 9, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/04/09/985104612/conspiracy-charges-bring-proud-boys-history-of-violence-into-spotlight. 
               104.  Day of the Rope, Anti-Defamation League, available at https://www.adl.org/resources/hate-symbol/day-rope. 
               105.  Contested States, #StopTheSteal, (Nov. 7, 2020), available at http://archive.ph/C9lwN (archived).
               106.  Christopher Mathias, After Trumps Defeat, His Supporters Held a Heavily Armed Pity
                  Party, Huff Post, (Nov. 7, 2020), available at https://www.huffpost.com/entry/harrisburg-trump-rally-defeat-extremists-proud-boys-armed-militias_n_5fa756ddc5b67c3259afbc42. 
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 10.
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 10.
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Michael Simmons, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 71; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of George Douglas
                  Smith, Jr., (Apr. 28, 2022), p. 47.
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), pp. 81-82; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Robert
                  Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 19; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022),
                  p. 26.
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Patrick Byrne, (July 15, 2022), pp. 151-52.
               112.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 107-09; Luke OBrien, How Republican
                  Politics (And Twitter) Created Ali Alexander, The Man Behind Stop the Steal, Huff Post, (Mar. 7, 2021), available at https://www.huffpost.com/entry/republicans-twitter-ali-alexander-stop-the-steal_n_6026fb26c5b6f88289fbab57.
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 107-09.
               114.  Criminal Complaint, United States v. Shroyer, No. 1:21-mj-572 (D.D.C. Aug. 19, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1428181/download. 
               115.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 17-19; Ryan Goodman, Justin
                  Hendrix, Just Security, Exclusive:  New Video of Roger Stone with Proud Boys Leaders
                  Who May Have Planned for Capitol Attack, (Feb. 6, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74579/exclusive-new-video-of-roger-stone-with-proud-boys-leaders-who-may-have-planned-for-capitol-attack/. 
               116.  Ryan Goodman &amp; Justin Hendrix, EXCLUSIVE: New Video of Roger Stone with Proud Boys
                  Leaders Who May Have Planned for Capitol Attack, Just Security, (Feb. 6, 2021), available
                  at https://www.justsecurity.org/74579/exclusive-new-video-of-roger-stone-with-proud-boys-leaders-who-may-have-planned-for-capitol-attack/. 
               117.  Will Carless, How a Trump Booster Group Helped the Head of Extremist Proud Boys
                  Gain Access to the White House, USA Today, (Dec. 19, 2020), available at https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/12/19/latinos-trump-group-tied-proud-boys-leader-enrique-tarrio/3931868001/. 
               118.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), p. 117.
               119.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), pp. 125-27; Affidavit in Support of
                  Arrest Warrant, United States v. Tarrio, No. 2020 CRWSLD 5553, (D.C. Super. Ct. Dec. 30, 2020). 
               120.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 127.
               121.  Affidavit in Support of Arrest Warrant, United States v. Tarrio, No. 2020 CRWSLD 5553, (D.C. Super. Ct. Dec. 30, 2020).
               122.  Peter Herman and Martin Weil, Proud Boys Leader Arrested in the Burning of Churchs
                  Black Lives Matter Banner, D.C. Police Say, Washington Post, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/proud-boys-enrique-tarrio-arrest/2021/01/04/8642a76a-4edf-11eb-b96e-0e54447b23a1_story.html;  Laura Wamsley, Proud Boys Leader Released from Police Custody and Ordered to Leave
                  D.C., NPR, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/01/05/953685035/proud-boys-leader-released-from-police-custody-and-ordered-to-leave-d-c. 
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Glover, (May 2, 2022), p. 16.
               124.  Elizabeth Elizalde, Proud Boys Surround Man with Knife at Violent DC Trump Rally, New York Post, (Dec. 13, 2020), available at https://nypost.com/2020/12/13/one-person-stabbed-during-massive-proud-boys-brawl-in-dc/. 
               125.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), pp. 128-29.
               126.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 129.
               127.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), pp. 130-131.
               128.  Second Superseding Indictment at  30, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               129.  Second Superseding Indictment at  32, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jay Thaxton Production), CTRL0000055644, (December 27-28,
                  2020, Ministry of Self Defense, Telegram messages from 7:43 p.m.-1:53 a.m.).
               130.  See, Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jay Thaxton Production), CTRL0000055644, (December 27-28,
                  2020, Ministry of Self Defense, Telegram messages from 7:43 p.m.-1:53 a.m.).
               131.  Second Superseding Indictment at  55, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               132.  Third Superseding Indictment at  38, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380; Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Jay
                  Thaxton Production), CTRL0000055644, (December 27-28, 2020, Ministry of Self Defense,
                  Telegram messages from 7:43 p.m.-1:53 a.m.).
               133.  Second Superseding Indictment at  33, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               134.  Second Superseding Indictment at  31, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305; see also Carter Walker, Carlisle Proud Boy Member Targeted in Search Warrant Tied to Jan.
                  6 Plot, Lancaster Online (Mar. 12, 2022), available at https://lancasteronline.com/news/politics/carlisle-proud-boy-member-targeted-in-search-warrant-tied-to-jan-6-plot/article_c2596928-a258-11ec-a6bb-c79ff2e0e8a7.html (identifying John Stewart as Person-3 in Second Superseding Indictment).
               135.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Jay Thaxton Production), CTRL0000055644, (December
                  29, 2020, Ministry of Self Defense, Telegram message at 11:09 a.m.).
               136.  Second Superseding Indictment at  41, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C.  Mar. 7, 2022) ECF No. 305.
               137.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Samuel Armes, (July 18, 2022), p. 10-14 (describing Armes
                  role in drafting a prior version of the document, which he then shared with Eryka
                  Gemma Flores, another cryptocurrency investor who shared the document with Tarrio);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Eryka Gemma Flores, (July 1, 2022).
               138.  Zachary Rehls Motion to Reopen Detention Hearing and Request for a Hearing, Exhibit
                  1: 1776 Returns, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 15, 2022) ECF No. 401-1, available at https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/22060615/1776-returns.pdf. 
               139.  Zachary Rehls Motion to Reopen Detention Hearing and Request for a Hearing, Exhibit
                  1: 1776 Returns, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 15, 2022) ECF No. 401-1, available at https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/22060615/1776-returns.pdf.
               140.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Matthew Thomas Walter, (Mar. 9, 2022), pp. 70-71; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Christopher
                  Barcenas, (Mar. 10, 2022), p. 98; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of George Meza, (Mar. 16, 2022), p.
                  118; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 23.
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Samuel Armes, (July 18, 2022), p. 14.
               142.  Second Superseding Indictment at  41, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               143.  Georgia Wells, Rebecca Ballhaus, and Keach Hagey, Proud Boys, Seizing Trumps Call
                  to Washington, Helped Lead Capitol Attack, Wall Street Journal, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/proud-boys-seizing-trumps-call-to-washington-helped-lead-capitol-attack-11610911596. 
               144.  Second Superseding Indictment at  49, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305; Carter Walker, Carlisle Proud
                  Boy Member Targeted in Search Warrant Tied to Jan. 6 Plot, Lancaster Online (Mar. 12, 2022), available at https://lancasteronline.com/news/politics/carlisle-proud-boy-member-targeted-in-search-warrant-tied-to-jan-6-plot/article_c2596928-a258-11ec-a6bb-c79ff2e0e8a7.html (identifying John Stewart as Person-3 in Second Superseding Indictment).
               145.  Second Superseding Indictment at  49, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305; Carter Walker, Carlisle Proud
                  Boy Member Targeted in Search Warrant Tied to Jan. 6 Plot, Lancaster Online (Mar. 12, 2022), available at https://lancasteronline.com/news/politics/carlisle-proud-boy-member-targeted-in-search-warrant-tied-to-jan-6-plot/article_c2596928-a258-11ec-a6bb-c79ff2e0e8a7.html (identifying John Stewart as Person-3 in Second Superseding Indictment).
               146.  Second Superseding Indictment at  50, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022) ECF No. 305.
               147.  Plea Agreement at 1, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022), ECF No. 335.
               148.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-00175-4-TJK (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022).
               149.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-00175-4-TJK (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022).
               150.  Statement of Offense at 6, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-00175-4-TJK (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022).
               151.  Statement of Offense at 6, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-00175-4-TJK (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022).
               152.  Statement of Offense at 8, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-00175-4-TJK (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022).
               153.  Former Leader of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy for Efforts to
                  Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice,
                  (Oct. 6, 2022), available at http://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power.  
               154.  Former Leader of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy for Efforts to
                  Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice,
                  (Oct. 22, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power. 
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 156.
               156.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Bertino, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 156.
               157.  Statement of Sam Jackson, Ph.D., (Mar. 30, 2022), at p. 2.
               158.  Zachary Cohen, Oath Keepers Leader Spewed Anti-government Hate for More than a Decade.
                  Alex Jones Gave Him the Audience, CNN, (Jan. 14, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/14/politics/oath-keepers-stewart-rhodes-alex-jones-invs/index.html. 
               159.  The Select Committee found that the idea that violence loomed from the left was a
                  powerful draw for people to join the Oath Keepers. Richard Dockery, a former Oath
                  Keepers member from Florida, decried all the riots and stuff I was seeing on the
                  news all over the country and expressed concern about Antifa and Black Lives Matter
                  activity in his area of Florida, a prospect that he called nerve-wracking. Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition
                  of Richard Dockery, (Feb. 2, 2022), pp. 10, 31.  Because of this, he said that the
                  Oath Keepers seemed like a really good organization to support in order to keep
                  communities safe. Id., at p. 9.  Similarly, Jeff Morelock told the Select Committee that joining the Oath
                  Keepers would give me a chance to do something to help instead of just sitting on
                  the couch, referring to watching protests on television. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Jeffrey Lawrence
                  Morelock, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 87-88.  Jason Van Tatenhove, a former spokesman for
                  the Oath Keepers and confidant to Rhodes who has since publicly denounced the group,
                  described how the Oath Keepers tried to deliberately leverage this dynamic to increase
                  their clout. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Jason Van Tatenhove, (Mar. 9, 2022), pp.
                  54-55.
               160.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 2, 2022), pp. 103-104.
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 9-10.
               162.  Stewart Rhodes, Call to Action! March on DC, Stop the Steal, Defend the President,
                  &amp; Defeat the Deep State, Oath Keepers, (Nov. 10, 2020), available at https://oathkeepers.org/2020/11/call-to-action-march-on-dc-stop-the-steal-defend-the-president-defeat-the-deep-state/. 
               163.  Stewart Rhodes, Call to Action! March on DC, Stop the Steal, Defend the President,
                  &amp; Defeat the Deep State, Oath Keepers, (Nov. 10, 2020), available at  https://oathkeepers.org/2020/11/call-to-action-march-on-dc-stop-the-steal-defend-the-president-defeat-the-deep-state/. 
               164.  Stewart Rhodes and Kellye SoRelle, Open Letter to President Trump: You Must Use
                  the Insurrection Act to Stop the Steal and Defeat the Coup, Oath Keepers, (Dec.
                  14, 2020), available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210123133022/https:/oathkeepers.org/2020/12/open-letter-to-president-trump-you-must-use-insurrection-act-to-stop-the-steal-and-defeat-the-coup/.
               165.  Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman, Trump Aides Prepared Insurrection Act Order
                  During Debate Over Protests, New York Times, (June 25, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/25/us/politics/trump-insurrection-act-protests.html. 
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 2, 2022), p. 131.
               167.  Pro-Trump Rallies in DC Attract Extremists &amp; Erupt into Violence, Anti-Defamation
                  League, (Dec. 13, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/blog/pro-trump-rallies-in-dc-attract-extremists-erupt-into-violence. 
               168.  In texts between Rhodes and Rob Weaver, one of the organizers of the Jericho March,
                  Weaver instructed his associate to work with Rhodes on extra security. Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Robert Weaver Production), Weaver J6 Prod. (S. Rhodes)0001 (December
                  11, 2020, text from Rob Weaver at 1:39 p.m.).
               169.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Thomas Speciale Production), CTRL0000050180, pp. 1-6,
                  26-28 (Signal Chat Titled Dec 12 DC Security/Leadership); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Robert Weaver Production), Weaver J6 Production) Prod. (S. Rhodes)0039 (Signal Chat
                  Titled Dec 12 DC Security/Leadership).; Superseding Indictment at 12, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167 (noting that on December 11,
                  2020, Rhodes sent a message to an invitation-only Signal group chat titled, Dec
                  12 DC Security/Leadership, which included James, MINUTA, and others. RHODES stated
                  that if President-Elect Biden were to assume the presidency, It will be a bloody
                  and desperate fight. We are going to have a fight. That cant be avoided.).
               170.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Robert Weaver Production), Weaver J6 Prod. (S. Rhodes)
                  0045 (December 10, 2020, Stewart Rhodes chat with Dec. 12 DC Security/Leadership at
                  10:17p.m.).
               171.  Stewart Rhodes and Kellye SoRelle, Open Letter to President Trump: You Must Use
                  the Insurrection Act to Stop the Steal and Defeat the Coup, Oath Keepers, (Dec.
                  14, 2020), available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210123133022/https:/oathkeepers.org/2020/12/open-letter-to-president-trump-you-must-use-insurrection-act-to-stop-the-steal-and-defeat-the-coup/. 
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 2, 2022), pp. 132, 134.
               173.  Trial Exhibit 6748, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 20, 2022); Kyle Cheney, Prosecutors Detail Oath Keepers
                  Mounting Frustration with Trump as Jan. 6 Approached, Politico, (Oct. 20, 2022), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2022/10/20/oath-keepers-trump-jan-6-00062779. 
               174.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Alondra Propes Production), CTRL0000029585, p.1 (Stewart
                  Rhodes writing in OKFL Hangout chat).
               175.  Stewart Rhodes and Alondra Propes characterized the Proud Boys as street brawlers
                  in contrast to the Oath Keepers discipline. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 22, 2022), pp. 40, 43; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Alondra Propes, (Jan. 31, 2022), pp. 42-43, 136. Kellye SoRelle described the Proud
                  Boys as extreme white supremacists. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 63-64. Enrique Tarrio characterized
                  the Oath Keepers as oath breakers and embarrassing. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 77, 193-94.
               176.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Google Voice Production, Feb. 25, 2022).
               177.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Renewed Request for Pretrial Release at 7,
                  United States v. Meggs, No. 1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C. Mar. 23, 2021).  Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022),
                  p. 125.
               178.   Superseding Indictment at  28, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-25 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               179.  Leader of Oath Keepers and 10 Other Individuals Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious
                  Conspiracy and Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice,
                  (Jan. 13, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/leader-oath-keepers-and-10-other-individuals-indicted-federal-court-seditious-conspiracy. 
               180.  See Superseding Indictment at  17, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-25 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Landon
                  Bentley, (May 12, 2022), p. 11 (discussing use of Signal as an encrypted chat).
               181.  Superseding Indictment at  29, United States v. Rhodes, et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               182.  Superseding Indictment at  38, 39, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               183.  Third Superseding Indictment at  37, United States v. Crowl et al., No. 1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C., Mar. 31, 2021), ECF No. 127.
               184.  Third Superseding Indictment at  37, United States v. Crowl et al., No. 1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C., Mar. 31, 2021), ECF No. 127.
               185.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Richard Dockery, (Feb. 2, 2022),
                  pp. 48-52.
               186.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Richard Dockery, (Feb. 2, 2022),
                  p. 49.
               187.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Richard Dockery, (Feb. 2, 2022),
                  p. 51.
               188.  Infowars Army, Alex Jones Show  DOJ Launches National Probe of Election Fraud,
                  BitChute, Nov. 10, 2020, available at https://www.bitchute.com/video/NoELuXs06RzX/.
               189.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Robert Weaver Production), Weaver J6 Prod.
                  (S. Rhodes) 0011 (January 1, 2021, Stewart Rhodes chat with Jan 5/6 DC OK Security/VIP
                  Chat at 7:58-8:00 pm).
               190.  Superseding Indictment at  45, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Frank
                  Marchisella, (Apr. 29, 2022), p. 34.
               191.  Superseding Indictment at  44, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               192.  Superseding Indictment at  68, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.  Documents filed with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Hilton
                  Garden Inn Production), MHG000049-103 (January 2-8, 2021, Hilton Garden Inn invoices).
               193.  Superseding Indictment at  37, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kellye SoRelle,
                  (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 180.
               194.  Superseding Indictment at  47, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022) ECF No. 167.
               195.  Superseding Indictment at  57, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               196.  Superseding Indictment at  61, United States v. Rhodes, et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               197.  Superseding Indictment at  70, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               198.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Frank Marchisella, (Apr. 29, 2022), p. 39.
               199.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 196.
               200.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Frank Marchisella, (Apr. 29, 2022), p. 40.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 196.
               202.  Select Comittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Frank Marchisella, (Apr. 29, 2022), pp. 40-42.
               203.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Frank Marchisella, (Apr. 29, 2022), pp. 45-47.
               204.  Macias had traveled to DC after his arrest for bringing weapons to a vote-counting
                  center in Philadelphia while votes were being counted in November 2020.  Claudia Lauer,
                  Philly DA Seeks Contempt Charge for Vets for Trump Cofounder, AP News, (June 13, 2022), available at https://apnews.com/article/capitol-siege-pennsylvania-riots-philadelphia-virginia-d74b05c01aebde1ca26a9c080a5022d8. 
               205.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Frank Marchisealla Production), CTRL0000040442 (January
                  5, 2021, Frank Marchisella video of Facebook live stream).
               206.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Frank Marchisealla Production), CTRL0000040442, (January
                  5, 2021, Frank Marchisella video of Facebook live stream) at 0:36.
               207.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 207-08.
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 197.
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 197.
               210.  Second Superseding Indictment at  23, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Mar. 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               211.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 197.
               212.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS7-GC_1859.mov,
                  at 0:50 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               213.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS7-GC_1859.mov,
                  at 1:31 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               214.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS7-GC_1859.mov,
                  at 1:00 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 202.
               216.  Spencer S. Hsu, Video Released of Garage Meeting of Proud Boys, Oath Keepers Leaders,
                  Washington Post, embedded video at 3:20, (May 24, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/05/24/tarrio-rhodes-video/. 
               217.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS7-GC_1864.mov,
                  at 0:14 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               218.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS5_Clip0042.mov,
                  at 2:32-3:38 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               219.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS5_Clip0042.mov,
                  at 2:32-3:38 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               220.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210105_Sony_FS5_Clip0042.mov,
                  at 2:32-3:38 (Jan. 5, 2021).
               221.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2022), pp. 83-84.
               222.  See In re Stone, 940 F.3d 1332, 1334 (D.C. Cir. 2019); United States v. Stone, 394 F. Supp. 3d 1, 7-8 (D.D.C. 2019).
               223.  David Freedlander, An Oral History of Donald Trumps Almost-Run for President in
                  2000, Intelligencer, (Oct. 11, 2018), available at https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/10/trumps-almost-run-for-president-in-2000-an-oral-history.html.  
               224.  See Trial Transcript at 3806, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 17, 2022) (testimony and exhibits showing Kelly Meggs
                  and Jessica Watkins discussed providing security for Roger Stone); Dalton Bennett
                  and Jon Swaine, The Roger Stone Tapes, Washington Post, available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/interactive/2022/roger-stone-documentary-capitol-riot-trump-election/; Matthew Mosk, Olivia Rubin, Ali Dukakis, and Fergal Gallagher, Video Surfaces Showing
                  Trump Ally Roger Stone Flanked by Oath Keepers on Morning of Jan. 6, ABC News, (Feb.
                  5, 2021), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/video-surfaces-showing-trump-ally-roger-stone-flanked/story?id=75706765; Christiaan Triebert (@trbrtc), Twitter, Feb. 19, 2021 4:35 p.m., available at https://twitter.com/trbrtc/status/1362878609334165505 (Kelly Meggs with Roger Stone); Spencer S. Hsu, Manuel Roig-Franzia, and Devlin Barrett,
                  Roger Stone Keeps Appearing in Capitol Breach Investigation Court Filings, Washington Post, (Mar. 22, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/roger-stone-court-filings-capitol-riot/2021/03/22/c689a77c-87f8-11eb-82bc-e58213caa38e_story.html (Mark Grods with Roger Stone); Andrew Smrecek (@combat_art_training), Instagram,
                  Dec. 15, 2020, available at https://www.instagram.com/p/CI0g8dlhEyG/ (Connie Meggs and Jason Dolan with Roger Stone) (last accessed Dec. 11, 2022).  
                  
               225.  Motion for Bond, Exhibit 1 at 76, 90, 96, 98, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Jan. 12, 2022), ECF No. 102-1.
               226.  Christiaan Triebert, Ben Decker, Derek Watkins, Arielle Ray, and Stella Cooper, First
                  They Guarded Roger Stone. Then They Joined the Capitol Attack, New York Times, (Feb. 14, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/02/14/us/roger-stone-capitol-riot.html. 
               227.  Matthew Mosk, Olivia Rubin, Ali Dukakis, and Fergal Gallagher, Video Surfaces Showing
                  Trump Ally Roger Stone Flanked by Oath Keepers on Morning of Jan. 6, ABC News, (Feb.
                  5, 2021), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/video-surfaces-showing-trump-ally-roger-stone-flanked/story?id=75706765. 
               228.  Leader of Alabama Chapter of Oath Keepers Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy
                  and Obstruction of Congress for Efforts to Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential
                  Election, Department of Justice Office of Public Affairs, (Mar. 2, 2022), available
                  at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-alabama-chapter-oath-keepers-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-and-obstruction.  
               229.  Dalton Bennett and Jon Swaine, The Roger Stone Tapes, Washington Post, (Mar. 4, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/interactive/2022/roger-stone-documentary-capitol-riot-trump-election/. 
               230.  Kelly Weill, How the Proud Boys Became Roger Stones Personal Army, Daily Beast, (Jan. 29, 2019), available at https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-the-proud-boys-became-roger-stones-personal-army-6. 
               231.  See, e.g., Andy Campbell, EXCLUSIVE: Roger Stone Admits Hes Been Advising The Proud Boys
                  For Years, Huff Post, (Sept. 22, 2022), available at https://www.huffpost.com/entry/roger-stone-we-are-proud-boys_n_632c57ebe4b09d8701bd02e2. 
               232.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video files 190926
                  I bil + fondraiser, 191003 Stone dag 3 backstage fundraiser 2 onstage, 200220. 
               233.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video file 190926
                  i bil + fondraiser. 
               234.  Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix, EXCLUSIVE: New Video of Roger Stone with Proud
                  Boys Leaders Who May Have Planned for Capitol Attack, Just Security, (Feb. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74579/exclusive-new-video-of-roger-stone-with-proud-boys-leaders-who-may-have-planned-for-capitol-attack/. 
               235.  Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix, EXCLUSIVE: New Video of Roger Stone with Proud
                  Boys Leaders Who May Have Planned for Capitol Attack, Just Security, (Feb. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74579/exclusive-new-video-of-roger-stone-with-proud-boys-leaders-who-may-have-planned-for-capitol-attack/.
               236.  Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix, EXCLUSIVE: New Video of Roger Stone with Proud
                  Boys Leaders Who May Have Planned for Capitol Attack, Just Security, (Feb. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74579/exclusive-new-video-of-roger-stone-with-proud-boys-leaders-who-may-have-planned-for-capitol-attack/.
               237.  Georgia Wells, Rebecca Ballhaus, and Keach Hagey,  Proud Boys, Seizing Trumps Call
                  to Washington, Helped Lead Capitol Attack, Wall Street Journal, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/proud-boys-seizing-trumps-call-to-washington-helped-lead-capitol-attack-11610911596. 
               238.  Georgia Wells, Rebecca Ballhaus, and Keach Hagey,  Proud Boys, Seizing Trumps Call
                  to Washington, Helped Lead Capitol Attack, Wall Street Journal, (Jan. 17, 2021), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/proud-boys-seizing-trumps-call-to-washington-helped-lead-capitol-attack-11610911596.
               239.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kellye SoRelle Production), CTRL0000060762 - CTRL0000060858
                  (screenshotting messages in the Friends of Stone chat); Dalton Bennett and Jon Swaine,
                  The Roger Stone Tapes, Washington Post, available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/interactive/2022/roger-stone-documentary-capitol-riot-trump-election/; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video file 200705.
               240.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video file 201105.
                  
               241.  Hugo Lowell, Film Offers Inside Look at Roger Stones Stop the Steal Efforts Before
                  January 6, The Guardian, (July 8, 2022), available at https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/jul/07/roger-stone-ali-alexander-film-jan-6-stop-the-steal. 
               242.  Document on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kellye SoRelle Production), CTRL0000060802, CTRL0000060798
                  (screenshots from the Friends of Stone chat). 
               243.  Executive Grant of Clemency for Roger Jason Stone, Jr., Department of Justice,
                  (July 10, 2020), available at https://www.justice.gov/pardon/page/file/1293796/download. 
               244.  Amita Kelly, Ryan Lucas, and Vanessa Romo, Trump Pardons Roger Stone, Paul Manafort
                  And Charles Kushner, NPR, (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://www.npr.org/2020/12/23/949820820/trump-pardons-roger-stone-paul-manafort-and-charles-kushner. 
               245.  PatriotTakes[American flag] (@PatriotTakes), Twitter, Dec. 28, 2020 3:50 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://twitter.com/patriottakes/status/1343479434376974336. 
               246.  PatriotTakes[American flag] (@PatriotTakes), Twitter, Dec. 28, 2020 3:50 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://twitter.com/patriottakes/status/1343479434376974336;  See also Ali Dukakis, Roger Stone Thanks President Trump for Pardon in Person, ABC News,
                  (Dec. 28, 2020), available at https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/roger-stone-president-trump-pardon-person/story?id=74940512.  
               247.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Kristin Davis, (August 2, 2022), p. 41; Documents on file
                  with Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  (Kristin Davis Production), CTRL0000928609, p. 7 (December 30, 2020, text message
                  from Kristin Davis to Chris Lippe at 6:05 p.m.). 
               248.  Documents on file with Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol (Kristin Davis Production), CTRL0000928609, p. 7 (December
                  30, 2020, text message from Kristin Davis to Chris Lippe at 6:05 p.m.).
               249.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Roger Stone, (Dec. 17, 2021).
               250.  Will Steakin, Matthew Mosk, James Gordon Meek, and Ali Dukakis, Longtime Trump Advisers
                  Connected to Groups Behind Rally that Led to Capitol Attack, ABC News, (Jan. 15,
                  2021), available at https://abcnews.go.com/US/longtime-trump-advisers-connected-groups-rally-led-capitol/story?id=75261028. 
               251.  Nicholas J. Fuentes: Five Things to Know, Anti-Defamation League, (July 9, 2021,
                  updated Nov. 30, 2022), available at https://www.adl.org/resources/blog/nicholas-j-fuentes-five-things-know?gclid=EAIaIQobChMI4ITXgYH6-wIVaUpyCh08sgxaEAAYASAAEgLGNPD_BwE; Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes), Twitter, Dec. 18, 2020 11:26 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://web.archive.org/web/20201219072617/https:/twitter.com/NickJFuentes/status/1340196694571540490  (archived). As noted in the Executive Summary, this tweet, like others, was likely
                  sent from or archived in a separate time zone, which explains why it shows a sent
                  date of December 18, 2020, while President Trump issued his tweet at 1:42 a.m. on
                  December 19, 2020.
               252.  California Man Sentenced to 42 Months in Prison for Actions During Jan. 6 Capitol
                  Breach, Department of Justice, (Oct. 19, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/california-man-sentenced-prison-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach; Tom Dreisbach, Allison Mollenkamp, A Former UCLA Student Was Sentenced to over
                  Three Years in Prison for Capitol Riot, NPR, (Oct. 19, 2022), available at https://www.npr.org/2022/10/19/1129912913/a-former-ucla-student-was-sentenced-to-over-three-years-in-prison-for-capitol-ri. 
               253.  Student Who Attended Charlottesville White Supremacist Rally Leaves Boston University
                  After Backlash, Time, (Aug. 17, 2017), https://time.com/4905939/nicholas-fuentes-white-supremacist-rally-charlottesville/; Neo-Nazi Hipsters Identity Evropa Exposed In Discord Chat Leak, Unicorn Riot,
                  (Mar. 6, 2019), https://unicornriot.ninja/2019/neo-nazi-hipsters-identity-evropa-exposed-in-discord-chat-leak/. 
               254.  See Statement of Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo and Morgan Moon, (Mar. 31, 2022); Groypers
                  Army and America First, Anti-Defamation League, (Mar. 17, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/reources/backgrounders/groyper-army-and-america-first. 
               255.  See, e.g., Malachi Barrett, Far-right Activist Who Encouraged U.S. Capitol Occupation also
                  Organized Stop the Steal Rally in Michigan, MLive, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://www.mlive.com/politics/2021/01/far-right-activist-who-encouraged-us-capitol-occupation-also-organized-stop-the-steal-rally-in-michigan.html; Studio IKN, Nick Fuentes at Stop the Steal Phoenix, YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U_vjzjMDenk. 
               256.  Megan Squire (@MeganSquire0), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/MeganSquire0/status/1346478478523125767?s=20. 
               257.  Fuentes personally earned $50,000 from his livestreams between November 3, 2020,
                  and January 19, 2021. He raised his highest-ever total the day after the 2020 election,
                  and he raised similarly high figures on January 5, 2021. Some of Fuentes proceeds
                  were refunded to customers following Fuentes ban from DLive. See Statement of Michael Edison Hayden, Megan Squire, Ph.D., Hannah Gais, and Susan Corke,
                  (Apr. 7, 2022), at 6-7. 
               258.  See, Statement of Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo, and Morgan Moon, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 12.
               259.  Malachi Barrett, Far-Right Activist Who Encouraged U.S. Capitol Occupation Also
                  Organized Stop the Steal Rally in Michigan, MLive, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://www.mlive.com/politics/2021/01/far-right-activist-who-encouraged-us-capitol-occupation-also-organized-stop-the-steal-rally-in-michigan.html. 
               260.  Chuck Tanner, Deciphering Nick Fuentes Stop the Steal Speeches, Institute for
                  Research and Education on Human Rights, (Nov. 24, 2020), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74622/stopthesteal-timeline-of-social-media-and-extremist-activities-leading-to-1-6-insurrection/. 
               261.  #StopTheSteal: Timeline of Social Media and Extremist Activities Leading to 1/6
                  Insurrection, Just Security (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74622/stopthesteal-timeline-of-social-media-and-extremist-activities-leading-to-1-6-insurrection/.
               262.  Chuck Tanner, White Nationalists Prominent at Stop the Steal Mobilization in Georgia,
                  Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, (Nov. 24, 2020), available
                  at https://www.irehr.org/2020/11/24/white-nationalists-prominent-at-stop-the-steal-mobilization-in-georgia/. 
               263.  Aquarium Groyper, Nick Fuentes Georgia State Capitol 11/20/2020, YouTube, at 1:38,
                  Nov. 20, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OS1f--Tkn1M.  
               264.  Peter White, MAGA Protestors Chant Destroy the GOP at Pro-Trump Rally, Rolling Stone, (Dec. 12, 2020), available at https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/protesters-chant-destroy-the-gop-at-pro-trump-rally-1102967/. 
               265.  Pro-Trump Rallies in DC Attract Extremists &amp; Erupt into Violence, Anti-Defamation
                  League, (Dec. 13, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/blog/pro-trump-rallies-in-dc-attract-extremists-erupt-into-violence. 
               266.  Megan Squire (@MeganSquire0), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/MeganSquire0/status/1346478478523125767?s=20.    
               267.  Patrick Casey (@Patrickcaseyusa), Telegram, Jan. 5, 2021 6:20 p.m.; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Public Source), CTRL0000930909 - CTRL0000930912 (collection of Patrick
                  Casey telegram posts). 
               268.  Mallory Simon and Sara Sidner, Decoding the Extremist Symbols and Groups at the
                  Capitol Hill Insurrection, CNN, (Jan. 11, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/09/us/capitol-hill-insurrection-extremist-flags-soh/index.html. 
               269.  Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021 10:56 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://web.archive.org/web/20210107185745/https://twitter.com/NickJFuentes/status/1347255833516765185 (archived).
               270.  Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021 1:03 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://web.archive.org/web/20210107210736/https://twitter.com/NickJFuentes/status/1347287851629764610 (archived).
               271.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas J. Fuentes, (Feb. 16, 2022).
               272.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Michael Lee Wells, (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 72.
               273.  Alejandro J. Beutel, Daryl Johnson, The Three Percenters: A Look Inside an Anti-Government
                  Militia, Newlines Institute for Strategy and Policy, (Feb. 2021), at 8, available
                  at https://newlinesinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/20210225-Three-Percenter-PR-NISAP-rev051021.pdf; Three Percenters, Southern Poverty Law Center, available at https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/extremist-files/group/three-percenters. 
               274.  Statement of Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo, and Morgan Moon, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 12-13.
               275.  Statement of Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo, and Morgan Moon, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 13.
               276.  Statement of Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo, and Morgan Moon, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 13.
               277.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Liggett, (May 17, 2022), pp. 6-7.
               278.  Two Texas Men Charged with Assault on Law Enforcement During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach,
                  Department of Justice, (Dec. 14, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/two-texas-men-charged-assault-law-enforcement-during-jan-6-capitol-breach. 
               279.  Texas Man Sentenced to 52 Months in Prison For Assaulting Law Enforcement Officers
                  During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Sept. 28, 2022), available
                  at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/texas-man-sentenced-prison-assaulting-law-enforcement-officers-during-jan-6-capitol.  
               280.  Criminal Complaint at 9, 13, United States v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               281.  Criminal Complaint at 8-12, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1. For example, Denney told Hazard
                  that they will need linking up with the proud boys. Id., at 8. Denney described the hotel he booked as the same place everyone else is getting
                  in the Proud Boys crew and other militias until it gets full. Id., at 9. In a separate post on Facebook, Denney stated that the Patriot Boys of North
                  Texas were allied with the Patriot Prayer and the Proud Boys. Id., at 9. In another Facebook message on December 29, Denney wrote: We are linking
                  up with thousands of Proud Boys and other militia that will be there. This is going
                  to be huge. And its going to be a fight. Id., at 10.  Similarly, Hazard wrote on Facebook: I belong to a militia group thats
                  affiliated with the proud boys and Were affiliated with the proud boys which have
                  folks of all races as theres several thousand members. Id., at 12.
               282.  Criminal Complaint at 8, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               283.  Criminal Complaint at 10, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               284.  Criminal Complaint at 11, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1. Hazard also echoed this idea.
                  Id., at 14.
               285.  Criminal Complaint at 10-11, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               286.  Criminal Complaint at 10, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               287.  Criminal Complaint at 12, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               288.  Criminal Complaint at 12, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               289.  Criminal Complaint at 16, United States. v. Hazard, No. 1:21-mj-868 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               290.  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184-RMM (D.D.C. Aug, 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               291.  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               292.  Statement of Facts at 4, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               293.  Statement of Facts at 4, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               294.  Statement of Facts at 4, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               295.  Statement of Facts at 28, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               296.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               297.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeremy Liggett, (May 17, 2022), pp. 50-51.
               298.  Statement of Facts at 28, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1; #SeditionHunters (@SeditionHunters),
                  Twitter, June 7, 2021 2:11 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SeditionHunters/status/1401965056980627458. 
               299.  Statement of Facts at 5-6, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1; #SeditionHunters (@SeditionHunters),
                  Twitter, June 7, 2021 2:11 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SeditionHunters/status/1401965056980627458. 
               300.  Five Florida Men Arrested on Charges for Actions During Jan. 6 Capitol Breach,
                  United States Department of Justice, (Aug. 24, 2022) available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/five-florida-men-arrested-charges-actions-during-jan-6-capitol-breach. 
               301.  Indictment Dated June 9, 2021 at 1, United States v. Hostetter et. al., No. 1:1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021); Michael Kunzelman, Capitol Rioter Used
                  Charity to Promote Violence, Feds Say, Associated Press, (June 16, 2021), available at  https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-joe-biden-riots-health-coronavirus-pandemic-71a7b8121b6f70016f7cab601021a989.  
               302.  Indictment at  38, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               303.  Indictment at 7, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               304.  Indictment at 7, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               305.  Indictment at 8, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               306.  Indictment at 9, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               307.  Indictment at 8-11, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               308.  Indictment at 8-11, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               309.  Indictment at 12, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               310.  The National Council and The Three Percenters - Original, TTPO Stance on Election
                  Fraud, Dec. 16, 2020, available at http://archive.ph/YemCC (archived).
               311.  See post by username @hatdonuts2, patriots.win, December 29, 2020, 7:56 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://patriots.win/p/11RO2hdyR2/x/c/4DrwV8RcV1s; Statement of Facts at 7-8, United States v. Buxton, No. 1:21-cr-739 (D.D.C. Dec. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Josh Ellis, (May 19, 2022), p. 38.
               313.  Lone Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman Diverts Capitol Rioters, Washington Post, (Jan. 11, 2021). available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/national/lone-capitol-police-officer-eugene-goodman-diverts-capitol-rioters/2021/01/11/ba67a5e8-5f9b-4a9a-a7b7-93549f6a81b3_video.html.
               314.  Scott MacFarlane and Gillian Morley, QAnon Follower Doug Jensen Convicted on All
                  Jan. 6 Charges, CBS News, (Sept. 23, 2022), available at https://www.cbsnews.com/news/qanon-follower-doug-jensen-convicted-on-all-jan-6-charges/. 
               315.  Interview of: Douglas Austin Jensen Dated Jan. 8, 2021 at 19, United States v. Jensen, No. 1:21-cr-6 (D.D.C., Apr. 8, 2022), ECF No. 69-1.
               316.  Statement of Mike Rothschild, (Mar. 23, 2022), at 12.
               317.  Statement of Mike Rothschild, (Mar. 23, 2022), at 2-3.
               318.  QAnon, Anti-Defamation League, (May 4, 2020), available at https://www.adl.org/resources/backgrounder/qanon. 
               319.  Kelly Weill, QAnons Home 8kun is Imploding - and Q Has Gone Silent, Daily Beast, (Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://www.thedailybeast.com/qanons-home-8kun-is-implodingand-q-has-gone-silent?ref=scroll. 
               320.  Remarks by President Trump in Press Briefing, White House, (Aug. 19, 2020), available
                  at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-press-briefing-august-19-2020/. 
               321.  NBC News, Trump Denounces White Supremacy, Sidesteps Question on QAnon, YouTube,
                  at 1:32, 2:34, Oct. 15, 2020, available at https://youtu.be/3hybkzCWb_w. 
               322.  Ben Collins, QAnons Dominion Voter Fraud Conspiracy Theory Reaches the President,
                  NBC News, (Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/q-fades-qanon-s-dominion-voter-fraud-conspiracy-theory-reaches-n1247780; National Contagion Research Institute, The QAnon Conspiracy: Destroying Families,
                  Dividing Communities, Undermining Democracy, p. 20, available at https://networkcontagion.us/wp-content/uploads/NCRI-%E2%80%93-The-QAnon-Conspiracy-FINAL.pdf. 
               323.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 12:41 a.m. ET and 3:47
                  p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Dominion-izing+the+Vote%22 (archived).
               324.  One America News Network, Cyber Analyst on Dominion Voting: Shocking Vulnerabilities,
                  YouTube, at 0:45, Nov. 15, 2020, available at https://youtu.be/eKcPoCNW8AA. 
               325.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of James Watkins, (June 6, 2022), p. 11. Watkins denied under oath that
                  either he or his son Ron are Q. Id., at  38, 122.
               326.  Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec. 15, 2020 12:32 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Soon-to-be+AG+Rosen+recently+wrote+an+essay+on+foreign+influence+in+US+elections.+foreign+actors+are+covertly+trying+to%22 (archived).
               327.  President Donald J. Trump, Tweets of January 3, 2021, The American Presidency Project,
                  available at, available at https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-january-3-2021 (archived).
               328.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of James Watkins, (June 6, 2022), p. 77; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Jody Williams,
                  (June 7, 2022), p. 67 (noting, as the then-owner of TheDonald.win, that President
                  Trumps December 19th tweet was everywhere, including with Q people.).
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of James Watkins, (June 6, 2022), pp. 74, 76.
               330.  Statement of Offense at 3, United States v. Munn, No. 1:21-cr-474 (D.D.C. May 13, 2022), ECF No. 78.
               331.  Statement of Facts at 3, United States v. Chansley, No. 1:21-cr-3 (D.D.C. Jan. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               332.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Elmer Stewart Rhodes, (Feb. 2, 2022), p. 162.
               333.  See, e.g., Trial Exhibit 6860 (1.S.656.9257), United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 13, 2022) (Rhodes messaging an Oath Keepers chat that
                  Lets adopt the Q slogan of WWG1WGA. Where We Go One, We Go All. We nullify TOGETHER
                  We defy TOGETHER. We resist TOGETHER We defend TOGETHER.  They come for one of us,
                  they come for all of us. When they come for us, we go for them. When they strike at
                  our leaders, we strike at their leaders. This is the path of the Founders. Its what
                  they did.); Trial Exhibit 4064, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022) (printout of December 23, 2020, open letter
                  to President Trump posted by Stewart Rhodes on the Oath Keeper website, imploring
                  the President to invoke the Insurrection Act to prevent a communist takeover of the
                  United States through the inauguration of Joe Biden).
               334.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Nick Quested, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 53.
               335.  Ben Collins and Brandy Zadrozny, Extremists Made Little Secret of Ambitions to Occupy
                  Capitol in Weeks Before Attack, NBC News, (Jan. 8, 2021), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/internet/extremists-made-little-secret-ambitions-occupy-capital-weeks-attack-n1253499. 
               336.  Kari Paul, Luke Harding and Severin Carrell, Far-Right Website 8kun Again Loses
                  Internet Service Protection Following Capitol Attack, The Guardian, (Jan. 15, 2021), available at https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2021/jan/15/8kun-8chan-capitol-breach-violence-isp. 
               337.  Ben Collins and Brandy Zadrozny, Extremists Made Little Secret of Ambitions to Occupy
                  Capitol in Weeks Before Attack, NBC News, (Jan. 8, 2021), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/internet/extremists-made-little-secret-ambitions-occupy-capital-weeks-attack-n1253499. 
               338.  Post by username r3deleven, Trump Tweet. Daddy Says Be In DC On Jan. 6th, Patriots.Win,
                  Dec. 19, 2020, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210105024826/https://thedonald.win/p/11R4q2aptJ/trump-tweet-daddy-says-be-in-dc-/c/ (archived).
               339.  How a Trump Tweet Sparked Plots, Strategizing to Storm and Occupy Capitol with
                  Handcuffs and Zip Ties, SITE Intelligence Group, (Jan. 9, 2021), available at https://ent.siteintelgroup.com/Far-Right-/-Far-Left-Threat/how-a-trump-tweet-sparked-plots-strategizing-to-storm-and-occupy-capitol-with-handcuffs-and-zip-ties.html. 
               340.  How a Trump Tweet Sparked Plots, Strategizing to Storm and Occupy Capitol with
                  Handcuffs and Zip Ties, SITE Intelligence Group, (Jan. 9, 2021), available at https://ent.siteintelgroup.com/Far-Right-/-Far-Left-Threat/how-a-trump-tweet-sparked-plots-strategizing-to-storm-and-occupy-capitol-with-handcuffs-and-zip-ties.html. 
               341.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jody Williams, (June 7, 2022), p. 72.
               342.  Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix, The Absence of The Donald, Just Security, (Dec.
                  6, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/79446/the-absence-of-the-donald/. 
               343.  Amrita Khalid, Donald Trump Participated in a Reddit AMA, but not Much of Anything
                  was Revealed, Daily Dot, (July 27, 2016), available at https://www.dailydot.com/debug/donald-trump-reddit-ama-fail/. 
               344.  Memorandum from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Briefing with Reddit, (May 19, 2022); Mike Isaac, Reddit, Acting
                  Against Hate Speech, Bans The_Donald Subreddit, New York Times, (Jan. 29, 2020, Updated Jan. 27, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/technology/reddit-hate-speech.html. 
               345.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jody Williams, (June 7, 2022), pp. 31-32. In fact, Williams testified
                  that he and other moderators had the opportunity to advertise the new website on Reddit
                  for months. See id., at 32-33. This gave TheDonald.win immediate access to hundreds of thousands of
                  people who used the Reddit forum. See id., at 33.
               346.  Ben Schreckinger, World War Meme: How a Group of Anonymous Keyboard Commandos Conquered
                  the Internet for Donald Trump and Plans to Deliver Europe to the Far Right, Politico Magazine, (Mar./Apr. 2017), available at https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/memes-4chan-trump-supporters-trolls-internet-214856/. 
               347.  Ben Schreckinger, World War Meme: How a Group of Anonymous Keyboard Commandos Conquered
                  the Internet for Donald Trump and Plans to Deliver Europe to the Far Right, Politico Magazine, (Mar./Apr. 2017), available at https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/memes-4chan-trump-supporters-trolls-internet-214856/. 
               348.  Daniella Silva, President Trump Tweets Wrestling Video of Himself Attacking CNN,
                  NBC News, (July 2, 2017), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/president-trump-tweets-wwe-video-himself-attacking-cnn-n779031. 
               349.  Justin Hendrix, TheDonald.win and President Trumps Foreknowledge of the Attack on
                  the Capitol, Just Security, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/79813/thedonald-win-and-president-trumps-foreknowledge-of-the-attack-on-the-capitol/. 
               350.  Andrew Restuccia, Daniel Lippman, and Eliana Johnson, Get Scavino in Here: Trumps
                  Twitter Guru is the Ultimate Insider, Politico, (May 16, 2019), available at https://www.politico.com/story/2019/05/16/trump-scavino-1327921. 
               351.  H. Rept. 117-284, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply
                  with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, 117th Cong., 2d Sess. (2022), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt284/CRPT-117hrpt284.pdf.
               352.  Justin Hendrix, TheDonald.win and President Trumps Foreknowledge of the Attack on
                  the Capitol, Just Security, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/79813/thedonald-win-and-president-trumps-foreknowledge-of-the-attack-on-the-capitol/. 
               353.  Post, If we occupy the capitol building, there will be no vote, Patriots.Win, available
                  at https://patriots.win/p/11Rh1RiP9l/if-we-occupy-the-capitol-buildin/. 
               354.  Post by username REDMARAUDER, The media will call us evil if we have to occupy the
                  Capitol Building on January 6th. Let them, Patriots.Win, Jan. 2, 2021, available
                  at https://patriots.win/p/11ROC9U7EM/the-media-will-call-us-evil-if-w/. 
               355.  Post by username Sharker, THIS IS NOT A RALLY OR PROTEST. We are all here for the
                  sole purpose of correcting this ILLEGAL election. Surround the enemy and do NOT LET
                  THEM LEAVE until this mess is cleaned up with Trump being re-admitted for 4 more years.
                  SACK UP PATRIOTS. Patriots.Win, Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://patriots.win/p/11Rh1WGo3K/this-is-not-a-rally-or-protest-w/c/. 
               356.  Ben Schreckinger, World War Meme:  How a Group of Anonymous Keyboard Commandos Conquered
                  the Internet for Donald Trump  and Plans to Deliver Europe to the Far Right, Politico Magazine, (March/April 2017) available at https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/memes-4chan-trump-supporters-trolls-internet-214856. 
               357.  How a Trump Tweet Sparked Plots, Strategizing to Storm and Occupy Capitol with
                  Handcuffs and Zip Ties, SITE Intelligence Group, (Jan. 9, 2021), available at https://ent.siteintelgroup.com/Far-Right-/-Far-Left-Threat/how-a-trump-tweet-sparked-plots-strategizing-to-storm-and-occupy-capitol-with-handcuffs-and-zip-ties.html. 
               358.  Alex Thomas, Team Trump Was in Bed With Online Insurrectionists before He Was Even
                  Elected, Daily Dot, (Jan. 15, 2021), available at https://www.dailydot.com/debug/dan-scavino-reddit-donald-trump-disinformation/. 
               359.  Alex Jones, Team Trump Was in Bed With Online Insurrectionists before He Was Even
                  Elected, Daily Dot, (Jan. 15, 2021), available at https://www.dailydot.com/debug/dan-scavino-reddit-donald-trump-disinformation/. 
               360.  Post by username wartooth6, Gallows are simpler and more cost effective, plus theyre
                  an American old west tradition too, Patriots.Win, Dec. 22, 2020, available at https://patriots.win/p/11RNfN5v3p/gallows-are-simpler-and-more-cos/c/. 
               361.  Post by username psybrnaut, Builder Pedes...Lets construct a Gallows outside the
                  Capitol Building next Wednesday so the Congressmen watching from their office windows
                  shit their Pants..., Patriots.Win, Dec. 30, 2020, available at https://patriots.win/p/11RO2pYG2P/builder-pedes-lets-construct-a-g/c/. 
               362.  Post by username TacticalGeorge, Building a hanging platform in front of Congress
                  on the 6 should send a strong message, Patriots.Win, Dec. 30, 2020, available at
                  https://patriots.win/p/11RO2oQy77/building-a-hanging-platform-in-f/. 
               363.  Post by username Krunchi, The One Thing You Must Know Before Going To DC on The
                  6th..., Patriots.Win, Jan. 3, 2021, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210105080829/https://thedonald.win/p/11ROGmlHG5/the-one-thing-you-must-know-befo/ (archived).
               364.  Post by username Badradness, We will be building a gallows right in front of the
                  Capitol so the traitors know the stakes. Im driving up in a sedan but if a patriot
                  with a pickup will assist Im down to spend from my credit line at Home Depot for
                  all of the supplies needed for this. Driving up Monday night or early Tuesday., Patriots.Win,
                  Jan. 3, 2021, available at https://patriots.win/p/11ROGrJPVQ/we-will-be-building-a-gallows-ri/c/. 
               365.  Post by username AFLP, Gallows on the Capitol Lawn, Patriots.Win, Jan. 5, 2021,
                  available at https://patriots.win/p/11RhArKEQ3/gallows-on-the-capitol-lawn/. 
               366.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM014441; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 209.
               367.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), Exhibit 45, pp. 4, 13. In his testimony
                  to the Select Committee, Miller denied reading such comments and claimed not to recall
                  whether Meadows had followed up with him about the thread. However, Miller did say
                  that sometimes he would click and see what people are saying on sites like TheDonald.win,
                  if he received a Google alert about himself. Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022),
                  pp. 209, 212, 214.
               368.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 209,
                  Exhibit 47.
               369.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 1:24 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1340362336390004737.  
               370.  Justin Hendrix, TheDonald.win and President Trumps Foreknowledge of the Attack on
                  the Capitol, Just Security, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/79813/thedonald-win-and-president-trumps-foreknowledge-of-the-attack-on-the-capitol/. 
               371.  Lena V. Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed, and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw
                  During the Attack on the Capitol, Pro Publica, at 12:05 p.m. ET at 0:30, Jan. 17, 2021, available, https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/; Statement of Catherine A. Sanderson, Ph.D., (June 3, 2022), at 5.
               372.  Through review of public records, the Select Committee identified organizers for
                  about a dozen events scheduled for January 5th or 6th secured permits from either
                  the U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) or National Park Service (NPS). Except for two eventsone
                  unrelated to January 6th and the other put on by a group that regularly held demonstrations
                  around D.C.all of the applications were submitted after President Trumps December
                  19th tweet. The three most important events were: Cindy Chafians January 5th event
                  at Freedom Plaza (using the group name The Eighty Percent Coalition); WFAFs January
                  6th event at the Ellipse; and Ali Alexanders January 6th event on the Capitol grounds
                  (under the One Nation Under God moniker). In addition to the permits issued to WFAF,
                  Cindy Chafian, and Ali Alexander (under the One Nation Under God moniker), at least
                  nine additional permits were issued by USCP or NPS for events in Washington, D.C.,
                  on January 5, 2021 or January 6, 2021.
               373.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of the Interior Production), DOI_46000428_00005162
                  (Dec. 19, 2020, Cindy Chafian email Re: Status of application - Women for America
                  First at 7:12 AM).
               374.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of the Interior Production), DOI_46000428_00005162
                  (Dec. 19, 2020, Cindy Chafian email Re: Status of application - Women for America
                  First at 7:12 AM).
               375.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Kylie Kremer, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 5.
               376.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Amy Kremer, (Feb. 18, 2022), pp. 8-10.
               377.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Amy Kremer, (Feb. 18, 2022), pp. 8-10.
               378.  Women for America First, March for Trump Bus Tour, trumpmarch.com,  available at
                  https://web.archive.org/web/20201226001527/https://trumpmarch.com/.
               379.  Kylie Jane Kremer (@KylieJaneKremer), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 3:50 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/kyliejanekremer/status/1340399063875895296?lang=en. 
               380.  Women For America First Ellipse Public Gathering Permit, National Park Service, available
                  at https://www.nps.gov/aboutus/foia/upload/21-0278-Women-for-America-First-Ellispse-permit_REDACTED.pdf.
               381.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ali Alexander, (Dec. 9, 2021), p. 15.
               382.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Resource Group Production), CTRL0000010113 (Dec. 19,
                  2020, Ali Alexandra text message to Stephen Brown at 10:49 a.m.).
               383.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Resource Group Production), CTRL0000010113 (Dec. 19,
                  2020, Ali Alexandra text message to Stephen Brown at 10:49 a.m.).
               384.  Valuation and Analysis, WildProtest.com, (Jan. 14, 2021 (last updated)), available
                  at https://wildprotest.com.siteindices.com/. 
               385.  President Trump Wants You in DC January 6, WildProtest.com, (Dec 19.2020), available
                  at https://web.archive.org/web/20201223062953/http://wildprotest.com/ (archived).  
               386.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Arina Grossu, (Apr. 29, 2022), p. 40.
               387.  Statement of Andrew J. Seidel, (Mar. 18, 2022), at 11, 13.
               388.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Arina Grossu Production), Grossu_01_002721 (Dec. 19,
                  2020, Rob Weaver email message to Arina Grossu at 8:20 a.m. CT).
               389.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Arina Grossu Production), Arina Grossu Exhibit 20 (Jericho
                  March Rally registration page).
               390.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Marsha Lessard, (Dec. 10, 2021); see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001834 (Permit Relating
                  to Demonstration Activities on United States Capitol Grounds for Virginia Freedom
                  Keepers, No. 20-12-25).
               391.  See Superseding Indictment at  37, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022) (noting that Stewart Rhodes, President of
                  the Oath Keepers, shipped weapons to Lessards home in Virginia before his arrival
                  in DC for January 6th); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kellye SoRelle, (Apr. 13, 2022), p. 180.
               392.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Henry Tarrio, (Feb. 4, 2021), p. 117 (testifying that Gracia arranged
                  a White House tour for him in December 2020).
               393.  Latinos for Trump (@Officiallft2021), Twitter, Dec. 27, 2020 7:58 p.m., available
                  at https://twitter.com/i/web/status/1343360740313321474. 
               394.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Nathan Martin Production), NMartin0318 (December 30,
                  2020, email from Kimberly Fletcher of Moms for America to Ali Alexander and Nathan
                  Martin re: MFA VIP list for White House); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Resource Group
                  Production), CTRL0000010100 (December 27, 2020, text messages between Nathan Martin,
                  Stephen Martin, Kimberly Fletcher, and Ali Alexander discussing permitting); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000086, CTRL0000000086.0001 (December
                  23, 2020, Special Event Assessment identifying Fletcher as a speaker at the Wild
                  Protest event during the same time as MFAs permitted event in a different area).
               395.  The Alex Jones Show, Prison Planet TV, at 10:07, Dec. 20, 2020, available at http://tv.infowars.com/index/display/id/11151. 
               396.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (T-Mobile Production, Nov. 19, 2021).
               397.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Cynthia Cindy Chafian (Nov. 1-2, 2021).
               398.  See, Beth Reinhard, Jaqueline Alemany, and Josh Dawsey, Low-Profile Heiress Who Played
                  a Strong Role in Financing Jan. 6 Rally is Thrust Into Spotlight, Washington Post, (Dec. 8, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/publix-heiress-capitol-insurrection-fancelli/2021/12/08/5144fe1c-5219-11ec-8ad5-b5c50c1fb4d9_story.html. 
               399.  Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Julia Fancelli Production), REL0000000994, (Bank Statements
                  for Julia Fancelli at the Bank of Central Florida from December 10, 2020, to January
                  10, 2021).  
               400.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), p. 58.
               401.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Verizon Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               402.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), pp. 45-46.
               403.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), p. 71.
               404.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Verizon Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               405.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000014 (January 4 -
                  6, 2021, Fancelli Budget &amp; Trip Plan).
               406.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000005 (December 27,
                  2020, Kylie Kremer e-mail to Caroline Wren at 11:25 am).
               407.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000468 (December 27,
                  2020, Caroline Wren text message thread with Alex Jones).
               408.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000550 (Dec. 27, 2020,
                  Caroline Wren text messages with Cindy Chafian).
               409.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Caroline Wren, (Dec. 17, 2021), pp. 50, 70-71.
               410.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000014 (January 4 -
                  6, 2021, Fancelli Budget &amp; Trip Plan.
               411.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000014 (January 4 -
                  6, 2021, Fancelli Budget &amp; Trip Plan.
               412.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000482 (December 29,
                  2020, Caroline Wren text message to Ali Alexander at 4:19 p.m.).
               413.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000482 (December 29,
                  2020, Caroline Wren text message to Ali Alexander at 4:19 pm).
               414.  Kathleen Ronayne and Michael Kunzelman, Trump to Far-Right Extremists: `Stand Back
                  and Stand By, Associated Press, (Sept. 30, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-race-and-ethnicity-donald-trump-chris-wallace-0b32339da25fbc9e8b7c7c7066a1db0f. 
               415.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 27, 2020 5:51 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com (archived).
               416.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Justin Caporale, (Mar. 1, 2022), pp. 20-21.
               417.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donald Trump, Jr., (May 3, 2022), p.30; Anthony Man, At
                  Trump Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Roger Stone Thanks President for Pardon, Orlando Sun Sentinel, (Dec. 28, 2020), available at https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/elections/fl-ne-roger-stone-thanks-trump-pardon-20201228-2ejqzv6e7vhyvf26cxz6e6jysa-story.html.
               418.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Dec. 17, 2021).
               419.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000444, pp. 1-3 (December 27, 2020, text message from Caroline Wren to Kimberly
                  Guilfoyle at 7:10 p.m.).
               420.  As revealed in the phone records for the personal cell phones of Max Miller and Anthony
                  Ornato. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Verizon Production, Dec. 17, 2021); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production,
                  Sep. 23, 2022). The Select Committee also subpoenaed the phone records for the personal
                  cell phones of Robert Peede, Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, and Justin Caporale. They
                  each filed lawsuits to block the respective phone companies production of the phone
                  records, which were still pending at the time of writing. Thus, there may have been
                  additional relevant phone calls among or involving these four of which the Select
                  Committee is not aware.
               421.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 36-37.
               422.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Justin Caporale, (Mar. 1, 2020), p. 44; Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Caroline
                  Wren Production), REVU_0644 (December 29, 2020, text messages with Justin Caporale).
               423.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 79-82; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_0181 (January 2nd email from Katrina
                  Pierson to Caroline Wren and Taylor Budowich).
               424.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 32-33, 41; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued
                  Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 107-08, 135.
               425.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), p. 42.
               426.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 44-45, 47, 52-54;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 87.
               427.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kylie Kremer Production), KKremer5447, p. 3 (January
                  4, 2021, text message from Kylie Kremer to Mike Lindell at 9:32 a.m.).
               428.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ali Alexander Production), CTRL0000017718, p. 41 (January
                  5, 2021 text message with Liz Willis at 7:19 a.m.).
               429.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 120-21.
               430.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 121.
               431.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 121.
               432.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 121.
               433.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 91-92.
               434.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 123.
               435.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 121-26.
               436.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 98-99.
               437.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Max Miller Production) Miller Production 0001, p. 1
                  (January 4, 2021, text message from Max Miller to Katrina Pierson).
               438.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 121.
               439.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 95; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0180, at 180, 196-97 (January 4, 2021,
                  President Trump Meeting Agenda).
               440.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 41.
               441.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 42.
               442.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 42-43.
               443.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0374 (December
                  30, 2020, Katrina Pierson text message to Kylie Kremer); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Katrina
                  Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 4.
               444.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 86.
               445.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 62-63. 
               446.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 84; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0924 (January 2, 2021, Katrina Pierson
                  text message to Mark Meadows at 1:39 p.m. and 1:40 p.m.)
               447.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (March 25, 2022), p. 74; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0921, (January 2, 2021, Katrina Pierson
                  text message to Mark Meadows at 5:16 p.m.).
               448.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 76-77, 80-81.
               449.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 75-77.
               450.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0924 (January 2,
                  2021 Katrina Pierson text message to Mark Meadows at 5:49 p.m.).
               451.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 108; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson180 (January 4, 2021, agenda for meeting
                  with President Trump at 1:21 p.m.).
               452.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 107-08; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0196 (Document titled: Meeting
                  w/ POTUS - January 4th 2021 at 3:30pm ET).
               453.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), pp. 116-18.
               454.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0906 (January
                  5, 2021, text message from Dan Scavino to Katrina Pierson at 4:23 a.m.).
               455.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Justin Caporale Production), Caporale_05_003987, (Jan.
                  3, 2021, Katrina Pierson text message to Justin Caporale and Taylor Budowich); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 79; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (Taylor Budowich Production), Budo-00714 (January 2, 2021, Katrina Pierson
                  email to Caroline Wren and Taylor Budowich at 10:49 p.m.).
               456.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Justin Caporale Production), Caporale_02_000673-88,
                  (Jan. 3, 2021, Justin Caporale text message to Katrina Pierson, redacted).
               457.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 81-83. Miller testified that he had
                  not been involved in or paying attention to the conversation until the President directly
                  addressed him about Giuliani.  Millers testimony was not credible on this point.
                  Miller said he did not take notes, yet in communications with people after the fact
                  he recounted details about the Presidents decision regarding speakers other than
                  Giuliani, Eastman, Powell, Wood, and Flynn. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), p. 85 (stating that neither he nor Peede
                  took notes); id. at p. 107 (confirming that he told Megan Powers on January 5th that President Trump
                  cut Paxton from the list).
               458.  In the January 4 meeting with Pierson and Miller, President Trump initially indicated
                  that Giuliani would not be able to speak at the Ellipse because he needed to be working
                  on lobbying Members of Congress to block certification of the electoral college vote,
                  yet another sign that the President intended January 6th to be a full-fledged effort
                  to stay in power. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Katrina Pierson, (Mar. 25, 2022), p. 117.
               459.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 81-83, 129-30.
               460.  User-Generated Clip, John Eastman at January 6 Rally, CSPAN, Mar. 24, 2021, available
                  at https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4953961/user-clip-john-eastman-january-6-rally. 
               461.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Max Miller, (Jan. 20, 2022), pp. 115-116.
               462.  It appears that Alexander was given front row seating for the Ellipse rally. He tweeted
                  a picture in front of the Ellipse stage, writing: Nice seats! Thank you @realdonaldtrump!
                  Ali [Orange Square] #StopTheSteal (@Ali), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210107094927/https:/twitter.com/ali (archived).
               463.  Moms for America, Save the Republic: Ali Alexander, Rumble, at 2:24, Jan. 29, 2021,
                  available at https://rumble.com/vdepmx-save-the-republic-ali-alexander.html. 
               464.  Ali [Orange Square] #StopTheSteal (@Ali), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210107094927/https:/twitter.com/ali (archived). 
               465.  NTD Television, Virginia Women for Trump Rally at Supreme Court, Facebook Live,
                  Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://www.facebook.com/NTDTelevision/videos/220171109588984. 
               466.  Radley Balko, Meet the Police Chief Turned Yoga Instructor Prodding Wealthy Suburbanites
                  to Civil War, Washington Post, (Jan. 27, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/01/27/alan-hostetter-capitol-riot-police-chief-yoga-instructor/. 
               467.  NTD Television, Virginia Women for Trump Rally at Supreme Court, Facebook Live,
                  at 20:10, Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://www.facebook.com/NTDTelevision/videos/220171109588984.  
               468.  NTD Television, Virginia Women for Trump Rally at Supreme Court, Facebook Live,
                  at 1:44:14 -1:45:54, Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://www.facebook.com/NTDTelevision/videos/220171109588984.   
               469.  NTD Television, Virginia Women for Trump Rally at Supreme Court, Facebook Live,
                  at1:46:04  1:49:40, Jan. 5, 2021, available at https://www.facebook.com/NTDTelevision/videos/220171109588984.  
               470.  Radley Balko, Meet the Police Chief Turned Yoga Instructor Prodding Wealthy Suburbanites
                  to Civil War, Washington Post, (Jan. 27, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/01/27/alan-hostetter-capitol-riot-police-chief-yoga-instructor/. 
               471.  Indictment at  56, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C., June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               472.  EpiqEpoch, Roger Stone January 5, 2021 Freedom Plaza, Rumble, at 8:09, Jan. 6,
                  2021, available at https://rumble.com/vchgtl-roger-stone-january-5-2021-freedom-plaza.html. 
               473.  Project Truth Beam, Jan 5th Freedom Plaza: Ali Alexander, Rumble, at 1:58-2:21,
                  Jan.16, 2021, available at https://rumble.com/vcx1mt-jan-5th-freedom-plaza-ali-alexander.html. 
               474.  EpiqEpoch, Alex Jones January 5, 2021 Freedom Plaza, Rumble, at 1:24, Jan. 6, 2021,
                  available at https://rumble.com/vchguz-alex-jones-january-5-2021-freedom-plaza.html. 
               475.  EpiqEpoch, Gen. Michael Flynn, January 5, 2021 Freedom Plaza, Rumble, at 5:28,
                  Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://rumble.com/vchisz-gen.-michael-flynn-january-5-2021-freedom-plaza.html. 
               476.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Ross Worthington, (Feb. 15, 2022), p. 112.
               477.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Bock IV, (Apr. 15, 2022), pp. 23, 32; Documents on
                  file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attacks on the United
                  States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002884_00001, (January 5,
                  2021, email from Worthington to Staff Secretary at 7:46 p.m., attaching a draft speech).
                  In the final hours before the speech, White House lawyers would insist that the speech
                  needed fact-checking and were most worried about the claims about Dominion Voting.
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production) 076P-R000007308_0001
                  (January 5, 2021, email from Worthington to Staff Secretary at 7:46 p.m.). But President
                  Trump would deliver the speech with the allegations intact. See Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Committee on Rules
                  and Administration, 117th Congress, Examining the U.S. Capitol Attack: A Review of
                  the Security, Planning, and Response Failures on January 6 (Staff Report), p. B-18,
                  (June 8, 2021).
               478.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00002701-02
                  (Draft Speech, Stop the Steal Rally).
               479.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Stephen Miller (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 125-26; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Ross
                  Worthington (Feb. 15, 2022), p. 124.
               480.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 15-16.
               481.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 16; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), Photo files 69c1_x032_555c_7,
                  0d9d_x039_557d_7 (January 5, 2021, photos of the meeting).
               482.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 76-77; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Sarah
                  Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 17, 19-20; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022),
                  p. 84; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Madison Fox Porter, (May 5, 2022), p. 19.
               483.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 16-17; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Judson Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 83-84.
               484.  Donald J. Trump (@RealDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 5:05 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22Washington+is+being+inundated%22 (archived). (Washington is being inundated with people who dont want to see an
                  election victory stolen by emboldened Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had
                  enough, they wont take it anymore! We hear you (and love you) from the Oval Office.
                  MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!). 
               485.  The Select Committee has obtained two drafts of the speech from January 5th, one
                  of which was circulated at approximately 3:30 p.m. and another at 7:40 p.m. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Vincent Haley Production), VMH-00002700, VMH-00002708
                  (January 5, 2021, email from Ross Worthington to Stephen Miller circulating draft
                  speech at 3:30 p.m.); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002878_00001,
                  076P-R000002879_00001, (January 5, 2021, email from Ross Worthington to Stephen Miller
                  circulating draft speech at 7:40 p.m.).
               486.  Donald J. Trump (@RealDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 5:05 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com (archived). (Washington is being inundated with people who dont want to see an
                  election victory stolen by emboldened Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had
                  enough, they wont take it anymore! We hear you (and love you) from the Oval Office.
                  MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!).
               487.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002879_00001
                  (Draft of Jan. 6, 2021 speech by President Donald Trump).
               488.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 91-92.
               489.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Shealah Craighead, (June 8, 2022), pp. 32-33. Craighead believed that
                  she later shared this with Ornato. See id., at 33.
               490.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 17; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson
                  P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), p. 99.
               491.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 17. Deere did not recall
                  this specific question nor responding to it, but did remember advising President Trump
                  that he should focus on his administrations accomplishments during his January 6th
                  Ellipse rally speech rather than his stolen election claims. Deere recalled President
                  Trump asking about which Members of Congress would be with him the next day and vote
                  against certifying the election. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 88-90,
                  92, 99-100.
               492.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 17.
               493.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 17; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Judson
                  Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 85-86.
               494.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 86-87, 99.
               495.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), p. 86.
               496.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, 076P-R000007361_0001 (January 5, 2021, email from Austin
                  Ferrer to Dan Scavino at 10:16 p.m.).
               497.  Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Committee on Rules
                  and Administration, 117th Congress, Examining the U.S. Capitol Attack: A Review of
                  the Security, Planning, and Response Failures on January 6 (Staff Report), p. B-2,
                  (June 8, 2021); Statement of Catherine A. Sanderson, Ph.D., (June 3, 2022), at 5.
               498.  Lena V. Groeger, Jeff Kao, Al Shaw, Moiz Syed, and Maya Eliahou, What Parler Saw
                  During the Attack on the Capitol, Pro Publica, at 12:05 p.m. ET at 0:30, Jan. 17, 2021, available, https://projects.propublica.org/parler-capitol-videos/; Statement of Catherine A. Sanderson, Ph.D., (June 3, 2022), at 5.
               499.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 11-19.
               500.  Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Committee on Rules
                  and Administration, 117th Congress, Examining the U.S. Capitol Attack: A Review of
                  the Security, Planning, and Response Failures on January 6 (Staff Report), pp. B-22,
                  23, (June 8, 2021).
               501.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000002911_00001,
                  076P-R000002912_00001 (January 6, 2021, email from Robert Gabriel Jr. to Dan Scavino
                  at 1:25 p.m. re: Final draft attached with attachment 210106 Save America March.doc);
                  Statement of Jennifer Mercieca, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 18.
               502.  Statement of Jennifer Mercieca, (Mar. 31, 2022), at 18.
            
         
         
         
            
                  President Trump speaks at the January 6th Ellipse rally.
                  (Photo by Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images)
               
            
