            4
            JUST CALL IT CORRUPT AND LEAVE THE REST TO ME
            4.1 The DOJ Found No Significant Evidence of Fraud
            U.S. Attorney General William Barr knew there would be trouble before all the votes
               had been counted. So, right out of the box on election night, the President claimed
               that there was major fraud underway, Barr explained. I mean, this happened, as far
               as I could tell, before there was actually any potential of looking at evidence.1 President Trump was quick to claim, there was major fraud based solely on the phenomenon
               known as the Red Mirage.2 
            As explained elsewhere in this report, Democrats were more inclined to vote via mail-in
               ballot during the 2020 Presidential election than Republicans, who were more likely
               to vote in-person on election day. This was widely known, and partly a result of,
               President Trumps own public statements criticizing mail-in balloting. It also created
               a gap in the timing of how votes were tallied. The early vote tally favored Republicans
               on election night because the mail-in ballots, which skewed toward Democrats, were
               not yet fully counted. This occurred not just in 2020, but also in previous elections.3 The President knew of this phenomenon but exploited it on election night, nonetheless,
               as he and his allies had planned to do.4
            President Trump exploited this timing gap and used it as the basis for this broad
               claim that there was major fraud, Barr said.5 But the Attorney General didnt think much of that. People had been talking for
               weeks and everyone understood for weeks that that was going to be what happened on
               election night, Barr explained.6 Cities with Democratic majorities in the battleground States wouldnt have their
               votes fully counted until the end of the cycle, with a lot of Democratic votes
               coming in at the end.7 This was not some well-guarded secret, as everyone understood that the dynamic of
               election night in many States would be whether or not the Democratic votes at the
               end of the day would overcome the election day votes.8 
            Within days of the election, the President made an avalanche of fraud allegations.
               It was like playing Whac-A-Mole, Barr explained, because something would come out
               one day and the next day it would be another issue.9 Barr told his staff very soon after the election that he didnt think the President
               would ever admit that he lost the election, and he would blame it on fraud, and then
               he would blame the actions and evidence on the Department of Justice.10 
            Barr soon took steps to investigate claims of fraud in the 2020 Presidential election, even in the absence of evidence. The Department of Justices (DOJ) longstanding policy had been to avoid any substantive investigations until after
               the elections results were certified.11 As the countrys premier Federal law enforcement agency, DOJ is justifiably concerned that its substantial power can influence the outcome of an election, and
               it has enacted policies to mitigate this possibility.12
            On November 7, 2020, the media declared former Vice President Biden the winner of
               the Presidential election. Two days later, on November 9th, Attorney General Barr
               authorized wider investigations into claims of election fraud.13 Barr instructed DOJ and FBI personnel to pursue substantial allegations of voting
               and vote tabulation irregularities prior to the certification of elections in your
               jurisdictions in certain cases.14 Barr noted that nothing in his memo should be taken as any indication that the Department
               has concluded that voting irregularities have impacted the outcome of any election.15
            4.2 November 23, 2020: Barr Challenges President Trumps Election Lies
            As Barr predicted, the President did call on him for information about alleged election
               fraud. Trump challenged him with a blizzard of conspiracy theories in three face-to-face
               meetings after the election. The first such meeting occurred on November 23, 2020.
            On November 23rd, the Attorney General spoke with White House Counsel Pat Cipollone,
               who said that it was important for him come to the White House and speak to President
               Trump.16 Barr had not seen the President since before the election in late October, and the
               White House counsel believed that it was important that the Attorney General explain
               what the Department of Justice was doing related to claims of election fraud.17 
            
                  Attorney General William Barr at the Department of Justice on December 21, 2020.
                  (Photo by Michael Reynolds-Pool/Getty Images)
               
            
            The President said there had been major fraud and that, as soon as the facts were
               out, the results of the election would be reversed, Barr recalled. Trump continued
               for quite a while, and Barr was expecting what came next.18 President Trump alleged that the Department of Justice doesnt think it has a role
               looking into these fraud claims.19 Barr anticipated this line of attack because the Presidents counsel, Rudolph Giuliani,
               was making all sorts of wild, unsubstantiated claims.20 And Giuliani wanted to blame DOJ for the fact that no one had come up with any real
               evidence of fraud.21 Of course, by the time of this meeting, U.S. Attorneys Offices had been explicitly
               authorized to investigate substantial claims for 2 weeks and had yet to find any evidence
               of significant voter fraud.22
            Barr explained to the President why he was wrong. DOJ was willing to investigate any
               specific and credible allegations of fraud.23 The fact of the matter was that the claims being made were just not meritorious
               and were not panning out.24 Barr emphasized to the President that DOJ doesnt take sides in elections and is
               not an extension of your legal team.25
            During the November 23rd meeting, Barr also challenged one of President Trumps central
               lies. He specifically raised the Dominion voting machines, which I found to be one
               of the most disturbing allegations.26 Disturbing, Barr explained, because there was absolutely zero basis for the allegations,
               which were being made in such a sensational way that they obviously were influencing
               a lot of people, members of the public.27 Americans were being deceived into thinking that there was this systematic corruption
               in the system and that their votes didnt count and that these machines, controlled
               by somebody else, were actually determining it, which was complete nonsense.28 Barr stressed to the President that this was crazy stuff, arguing that not only
               was the conspiracy theory a waste of time, but it was also doing [a] great, great
               disservice to the country.29
            As Attorney General Barr left the meeting, he talked with Mark Meadows, the White
               House Chief of Staff, and Jared Kushner, President Trumps son-in-law.30 I think hes become more realistic and knows that theres a limit to how far he
               can take this, Meadows said, according to Barr.31 Kushner reassured Barr, were working on this, were working on it.32 Barr was hopeful that the President was beginning to accept reality.33 The opposite happened. 
            I felt that things continued to deteriorate between the 23rd and the weekend of the
               29th, Barr recalled.34 Barr was concerned because President Trump began meeting with delegations of State legislators, and it appeared to him that there was maneuvering going on.35 Barr had no problem with challenging an election through the appropriate process,
               but worried that he didnt have any visibility into what was going on and that
               the President was digging in.36
            4.3 December 1, 2020: President Trump is Irate After Barr Says There is No Significant
               Fraud
            Attorney General Barr had been clear that DOJ was investigating claims of fraud. The
               Department simply was not turning up any real evidence of malfeasance, and certainly
               nothing that would overturn the election. Just as Barr feared, the President turned
               on DOJ anyway. 
            On November 29, 2020, Fox Newss Maria Bartiromo interviewed President Trump. It was
               his first TV interview since he lost his bid for reelection. The President claimed
               the election was rigged and rife with fraud.37 President Trump repeated various conspiracy theories, leading with the claim that
               Dominions voting machines had glitches, which moved thousands of votes from my
               account to Bidens account.38 President Trump pointed to dumps of votes, a reference to the batches of mail-in
               ballots that had been tabulated later in the counting process.39 He rambled off various other, spurious allegations, including that dead people voted
               in significant numbers.40 
            This is total fraud, the President said.41 And how the FBI and Department of JusticeI dont knowmaybe theyre involved, but
               how people are getting away with this stuffits unbelievable. This election was rigged.
               This election was a total fraud.42  
            Where is the DOJ and the FBI in all of this, Mr. President? Bartiromo asked.43 You have laid out some serious charges here. Shouldnt this be something that the
               FBI is investigating? Are they? Is the DOJ investigating? Bartiromo asked incredulously.44 
            Missing in action, the President replied, cant tell you where they are.45 He conceded that when he asked if DOJ and FBI were investigating, everyone says
               yes, theyre looking at it.46 But he didnt leave it there. You would think if youre in the FBI or Department
               of Justice, this is, this is the biggest thing you could be looking at, President
               Trump said. Where are they? Ive not seen anything. I mean, just keep moving along.
               They go onto the next President.47 He claimed the FBI was not even investigating Dominion, adding that votes processed
               in its machines are counted in foreign countries.48 
            None of this was true. Just 6 days earlier, Attorney General Barr had explained to
               President Trump how DOJ and FBI were investigating fraud claims. Barr also made it
               a point to emphasize that the Dominion claims were nonsense. The President simply
               lied. The crazy stuff, as Barr put it, was all Trump could cite. 
            Attorney General Barr then decided to speak out. He invited Michael Balsamo, an Associated Press (AP) reporter, to lunch on December 1st. Barr told the journalist that to date, we have
               not seen fraud on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.49 
            That made the President irate. 
            Later that evening, Attorney General Barr met with President Trump at the White House.
               It was their second face-to-face meeting after the November election.50 At first, President Trump didnt even look at Attorney General Barr.51 The President was as mad as Ive ever seen him, and he was trying to control himself,
               Barr said.52 The President finally shoved a newspaper with the AP quote in Barrs face.53 
            Well, this is, you know, killing me. You didnt have to say this. You mustve said
               this because you hate Trumpyou hate Trump, Barr remembered him saying.54 No, I dont hate you, Mr. President, Barr replied. You know, I came in at a low
               time in your administration. Ive tried to help your administration. I certainly dont
               hate you.55
            President Trump peppered him with unsupported conspiracy theories.56 Because he had authorized DOJ and FBI to investigate fraud claims, Attorney General
               Barr was familiar with the conspiracy theories raised by the President. The big ones
               he investigated included claims such as: Dominion voting machines switched votes,
               votes had been dumped at the end of the night in Milwaukee and Detroit, non-residents
               voted in Nevada, the number of ballots counted in Pennsylvania exceeded the number
               of votes cast, as well as a story about a truck driver supposedly driving thousands
               of pre-filled ballots from New York to Pennsylvania, among others.57 Under Attorney General Barr, DOJ would also investigate a false claim that a video
               feed in Fulton County captured multiple runs of ballots for former Vice President
               Biden. As explained in detail in Chapter 1 of this report, there was no truth to any
               of these allegations, but that didnt stop President Trump from repeatedly citing
               these fictional accounts.
            And I told him that the stuff that his people were shoveling out to the public was
               bullshit, I mean, that the claims of fraud were bullshit, Barr recalled about the
               December 1st meeting.58 And, you know, he was indignant about that. And I reiterated that they wasted a
               whole month of these claims on the Dominion voting machines and they were idiotic
               claims.59 
            President Trump repeated that there had been a big vote dump in Detroit.60 But Attorney General Barr quickly parried this claim.61 There was nothing suspicious in how the votes flowed into a central location, Barr
               explained, because that is how votes are always counted in Wayne County.62 Moreover, Barr pointed out that the President performed better in Detroit in 2020 than he had in 2016. I mean, theres no indication of fraud in
               Detroit, Barr said.63 Barr explained that the thing about the truck driver is complete, you know, nonsense.64 DOJ and FBI had investigated the matter, including by interviewing the relevant witnesses.65 There was no truck filled with ballots. 
            Nothing that Attorney General Barr said during that meeting could satisfy President
               Trump. So, the President shifted the focus to Barr. He complained that the Attorney
               General hadnt indicted former FBI Director James Comey and that U.S. Attorney John
               Durhams investigation into the origins of the FBIs Crossfire Hurricane investigation
               hadnt made more progress.66 Look, I know that youre dissatisfied with me, Barr said, and Im glad to offer
               my resignation.67 President Trump pounded the table in front of him with his fist and said, Accepted.68 
            White House lawyers Pat Cipollone and Eric Herschmann tracked Barr down in the parking
               lot after he left.69 They convinced Barr to stay in the administration.70 But his days as Attorney General were numbered. President Trump was not going to
               stop spreading conspiracy theories. Nor would the President cease in his effort to
               co-opt DOJ for his own corrupt political purposes.  
            President Trump released a video on Facebook the very next day.71 He repeated many of the same lies, including the conspiracy theory about Dominion
               voting machines switching votes. The President also offered charts, falsely claiming
               that fraudulent vote dumps had swung the election against him.72 Among the examples he cited was the supposed vote dump in Detroit, Michigan.73 In fact, Barr had already debunked this and other claims. 
            On December 3, 2020, Rudolph Giuliani appeared before the Georgia Senate Government Oversight Committee to allege
               that massive cheating had occurred during the election.74 Giuliani offered a video recorded on election night at the State Farm Arena in Atlanta,
               Georgia, as a key piece of evidence.75 Giuliani alleged that the video showed a secret suitcase of ballots being double-
               and triple-counted after Republican poll watchers had been inappropriately dismissed.76 The video was selectively edited and showed nothing of the sort. The Georgia Secretary
               of States Office investigated and immediately debunked the claim, finding that the
               secret suitcase was just a secure box and nothing nefarious had occurred.77 President Trump, Giuliani and others continued to push the lie anyway. 
            On December 4th, Attorney General Barr asked Byung J. (BJay) Pak, who was then the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, to independently investigate the State
               Farm claim. Barr told Pak that this was a priority, because he was going to go
               to the White House for a meeting and the issue might come up. Barr asked Pak to try to substantiate the allegation made by Mr. Giuliani.78
            Pak watched the video from State Farm Arena and asked the FBI to investigate the matter
               further. Pak told the Select Committee that FBI agents interviewed the individuals shown in the video who were supposedly double, triple counting the ballots, and determined
               that nothing irregular happened in the counting and the allegations made by Mr. Giuliani
               were false.79 And, as noted above, the supposed suitcase was a secure storage container used to store ballots. With this evidence in hand, Pak told Attorney General Barr that there was no substance to the allegations.80 
            4.4 December 14, 2020: Barr Submits His Resignation
            Finally, Attorney General Barr had had enough. He submitted his resignation on December
               14, 2020.81 During an interview with the Select Committee, former Attorney General Barr reflected
               on his face-to-face encounters with President Trump in November and December 2020:
            And, in that context, I made clear I did not agree with the idea of saying the election
               was stolen and putting out this stuff which I told the President was bullshit. And,
               you know, I didnt want to be part of it. And thats one of the reasons that went
               into me deciding to leave when I did.
            I observed, I think it was on December 1st, thatyou know, I believe you cant live
               in a world where the incumbent administration stays in power based on its view, unsupported
               by specific evidence, that the electionthat there was fraud in the election.82
            Around mid-day on December 14th, Attorney General Barr met with President Trump and
               Meadows in the Oval Office to discuss his resignation.83 When he arrived, and even before Barr could mention his resignation, President Trump
               began speaking at length about the recently released Allied Security Operations Group
               (ASOG) report on Dominion voting machines in Antrim County, Michigan.84 While the Attorney General had been briefed on the allegations in Antrim County and
               did not find them credible, he promised the President that he would have DOJ investigate
               them.85 The Attorney General then told President Trump that he had come for a separate reason
               and wished to speak to the President privately, so Meadows left.86
            
                  Former Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen testifies before the Select Committee on June 23, 2022.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            Barr told President Trump that it was clear the President was dissatisfied with him
               as Attorney General and that he had decided to resign.87 President Trump accepted his resignation and asked Barr who would replace him; Attorney
               General Barr recommended Jeffrey A. Rosen as Acting Attorney General and Richard Donoghue
               as his deputy.88 Although President Trump called Donoghue to discuss the possibility of appointing
               him Acting Attorney General, Donoghue advised that normal procedures be followed and
               Rosen be named Acting Attorney General.89 President Trump followed this advice, and upon Barrs departure, Rosen became Acting
               Attorney General while Donoghue would function as his deputy. 
            4.5 Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen and Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue
               Hold the Line
            Barr felt that he was leaving the Department in the hands of two trusted lieutenants.
               But President Trump immediately began to pressure Rosen and Donoghue, just as he had
               Barr.  
            On December 14, 2020, the day Barr resigned, Molly Michael, Special Assistant to the
               President and Oval Office Coordinator, sent an email to Acting Attorney General Jeffrey
               Rosen. The email had two documents attached, both of which were labeled From POTUS.90 The first was a set of talking points focused on false allegations of voter fraud
               in Antrim County, Michigan. The second document was the same ASOG report the President
               had given Barr.91 
            The next day, President Trump held a meeting in the White House with Acting Attorney General Rosen, Acting Deputy Attorney Donoghue, Cipollone, Meadows, Acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Ken Cuccinelli, and Acting General Counsel of the Department of Homeland Security Chad Mizelle.92 Barr did not attend, even though he was not scheduled to leave DOJ until the following week. The
               timing of the meeting was notable, as the previous day the electoral college had met
               and cast their votes in favor of former Vice President Biden.
            
                  Former Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue testifies before the Select Committee on June 23, 2022.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            During testimony before the Select Committee, Donoghue explained that the December
               15th, meeting was largely focused on the ASOG report.93 According to Donoghue, the President was adamant that the report must be accurate,
               that it proved that the election was defective, that he in fact won the election,
               and the [D]epartment should be using that report to basically tell the American people
               that the results were not trustworthy.94 President Trump discussed other theories as well, including erroneous allegations
               of voter fraud in Georgia and Pennsylvania, but the bulk of that conversation on
               December 15th focused on Antrim County, Michigan.95 President Trump asked why DOJ wasnt doing more to look at this and whether the
               Department was going to do its job.96 
            The Department of Justice was doing its job. In fact, Attorney General Barr had ordered unprecedented investigations
               into the many specious claims of voter fraud. The President simply didnt want to
               hear the truththat DOJ found that not one of the bogus claims was true. As explained
               in Chapter 1, the original vote totals in Antrim County were the result of a human
               error that had since been corrected, not the result of any problem with Dominion machines
               or software. There was no evidence of fraud. 
            4.6 President Trump is Introduced to Jeffrey Clark 
            On December 21, 2020, 11 House Republicans met with President Trump at the White House
               to discuss their plans for objecting to the certification of the electoral college
               vote on January 6th.97 After the meeting, Mark Meadows tweeted: Several members of Congress just finished
               a meeting in the Oval Office with @realDonaldTrump preparing to fight back against
               mounting evidence of voter fraud. Stay tuned.98 Among those in attendance was Congressman Scott Perry, a Republican from Pennsylvania.99 
            By the next day, Representative Perry had introduced a little-known DOJ official named
               Jeffrey Clark to the President.100 At the time, Clark was the Acting Head of the Civil Division and Head of the Environmental
               and Natural Resources Division at the Department of Justice.101 Clark had no experience in, or responsibilities related to, investigating allegations
               of election fraud. 
            President Trump called Acting Attorney General Rosen virtually every day between
               December 23rd and January 3rd.102 The President usually discussed his dissatisfaction with DOJ, claiming the Department
               was not doing enough to investigate election fraud.103 On Christmas Eve, Trump brought up Jeffrey Clarks name. Rosen found it peculiar,
               telling the Select Committee: I was quizzical as to how does the President even know
               Mr. Clark?104 
            
                  Former Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey Clark appears on a screen during a Select
                     Committee hearing on June 23, 2022.
                  (Photo by Mandel Ngan-Pool/Getty Images)
               
            
            Rosen then spoke directly with Clark on December 26th.105 Clark revealed that he had met with the President in the Oval Office several days
               prior.106 Clark had told the President that if he were to change the leadership at the Department
               of Justice, then the Department might be able to do more to support the Presidents
               claims that the election had been stolen from him.107 
            In his discussion with Acting Attorney General Rosen, Clark was defensive and apologetic,
               claiming that the meeting with President Trump was inadvertent and it would not happen
               again, and that if anyone asked him to go to such a meeting, he would notify Rich
               Donoghue and me [Rosen].108 Of course, Clark had good reasons to be defensive. His meeting with President Trump
               and Representative Perry on December 22nd was a clear violation of Department policy,
               which limits interactions between the White House and the Departments staff. As Steven
               Engel, former Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel, explained
               to the Select Committee, its critical that the Department of Justice conducts its
               criminal investigations free from either the reality or any appearance of political
               interference.109 For that reason, the Department has longstanding polices in place, across administrations,
               to keep these communications as infrequent and at the highest levels as possible,
               just to make sure that people who are less careful about it, who dont really understand
               these implications, such as Mr. Clark, dont run afoul of the of those contact policies.110 Rosen added that only the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General can have conversations
               about criminal matters with the White House, or they can authorize someone from
               within DOJ to do so.111 Clark had no such authorization.
            Representative Perry continued to advocate on Clarks behalf. The Congressman texted
               Meadows on December 26th, writing: Mark, just checking in as time continues to count
               down. 11 days to 1/6 and 25 days to inauguration. We gotta get going!112 Representative Perry followed up: Mark, you should call Jeff. I just got off the
               phone with him and he explained to me why the principal deputy [position] wont work
               especially with the FBI. They will view it as not having the authority to enforce
               what needs to be done.113 Meadows responded: I got it. I think I understand. Let me work on the deputy position.114 Representative Perry then sent additional texts: Roger. Just sent you something
               on Signal, Just sent you an updated file, and Did you call Jeff Clark?115
            4.7 December 27th Phone Call
            On December 27, 2020, President Trump called Acting Attorney General Rosen once again.
               At some point during the lengthy call, Rosen asked that Acting Deputy Attorney General
               Donoghue be conferenced in.116 According to Donoghues contemporaneous notes, Trump referenced three Republican
               politicians, all of whom had supported the Presidents election lies and the Stop
               the Steal campaign.117 One was Representative Scott Perry. Another was Doug Mastriano, a State senator from
               Pennsylvania who would later be on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol during the January
               6th attack.118 President Trump also referenced Representative Jim Jordan from Ohio, praising him
               as a fighter.119 Representatives Perry and Jordan had often teamed up to spread lies about the election.
               The two spoke at a Stop the Steal rally in front of the Pennsylvania State capitol
               in Harrisburg, just days after the November election.120 The pair also pressed their conspiratorial case during interviews with friendly media outlets.121
            President Trump made a stream of allegations during the December 27th call.122 As reflected in his notes, Donoghue considered the call to be an escalation of the
               earlier conversations, with the President becoming more adamant that we werent
               doing our job.123 President Trump trafficked in conspiracy theories he had heard from others, and
               Donoghue sought to make it clear to the President these allegations were simply not
               true.124 Donoghue sought to correct President Trump in a serial fashion as he moved from
               one theory to another.125
            The President returned to the discredited ASOG report, which former Attorney General
               Barr had already dismissed as complete nonsense. ASOG had claimedbased on no evidencethat
               the Dominion voting machines in Antrim County, Michigan had suffered from a 68 percent
               error rate. As noted above and in Chapter 1, that was not close to being true. 
            Bipartisan election officials in Antrim County completed a hand recount of all machine-processed
               ballots on December 17, 2020, which should have ended the lies about Dominions voting
               machines.126  The net difference between the machine count and the hand recount was only 12 out
               of 15,718 total votes.127 The machines counted just one vote more for former Vice President Biden than was
               tallied during the hand recount.128 Donoghue informed the President that he cannot and should not be relying on ASOGs
               claim, because it was simply not true.129 This did not stop the President from later repeating the debunked allegation multiple
               times, including during his January 6th speech at the Ellipse.130
            Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue debunked a series of other conspiracy theories
               offered by President Trump during the December 27th call as well. One story involved
               a truck driver who claimed to have moved an entire tractor trailer of ballots from
               New York to Pennsylvania.131 There was no truth to the story. The FBI interviewed witnesses at the front end
               and the back end of the trucks transit route, looked at loading manifests, questioned
               the truck driver, and concluded that there were no ballots in the truck.132
            President Trump then returned to the conspiracy theory about voting in Detroit. Former
               Attorney General Barr had already debunked the claim that a massive number of illegal
               votes had been dumped during the middle of the night, but the President would not
               let it go. President Trump alleged that someone threw the poll watchers out, and
               you dont even need to look at the illegal aliens votingdont need to. Its so obvious.133 The President complained that the FBI will always say theres nothing there, because
               while the Special Agents (the line guys) supported him, the Bureaus leadership
               supposedly did not.134 This was inconsistent with Donoghues view.135 But President Trump complained that he had made some bad decisions on leadership
               at the FBI.136 
            President Trump also wanted to talk a great deal about Georgia, [and] the State Farm
               Arena video, claiming it was fraud staring you right in the face.137 President Trump smeared Ruby Freeman, a Georgia election worker who was merely doing
               her job, as a Huckster and an Election scammer.138 President Trump said the networks, meaning the television networks, had magnified
               the tape and saw them running them [ballots] through repeatedly.139 The President repeated the lie that Democrats had [c]losed the facility and then
               came back with hidden ballots under the table.140 He suggested that both Rosen and Donoghue go to Fulton County and do a signature
               verification. They would see how illegal it is and find tens of thousands of
               illegal ballots.141
            President Trump kept fixating on the supposed suitcase in the video.142 But Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue debunked the Presidents obsession. There
               is no suitcase, Donoghue made clear.143 Donoghue explained that the DOJ had looked at the video and interviewed multiple
               witnesses. The suitcase was an official lock box filled with genuine votes.144 And election workers simply did not scan ballots for former Vice President Biden
               multiple times.145 All of this was recorded by security cameras.146
            In response to what President Trump was saying during the conversation, Rosen and
               Donoghue tried to make clear that the claims the President made werent supported
               by the evidence. You guys must not be following the internet the way I do, the President
               remarked.147 But President Trump was not finished peddling wild conspiracy theories.
            The President pushed the claim that Pennsylvania had reported 205,000 more votes than
               there were voters in the state.148 Well look at whether we have more ballots in Pennsylvania than registered voters,
               Acting Attorney General Rosen replied, according to Donoghue. They [s]hould be able
               to check that out quickly.149 But Rosen wanted President Trump to understand that the DOJ cant and wont snap
               its fingers and change the outcome of the election. It doesnt work that way.150
            I dont expect you to do that, President Trump responded. Just say the election
               was corrupt and leave the rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.151 
            Donoghue explained this is an exact quote from the President.152
            We have an obligation to tell people that this was an illegal, corrupt election,
               President Trump told the DOJ team at another point in the call.153 President Trump insisted this was DOJs obligation, even though Rosen and Donoghue
               kept telling him there was no evidence of fraud sufficient to overturn the outcome
               of the election. We are doing our job, Donoghue informed the President. Much of
               the info youre getting is false.154 
            The call on December 27th was contentious for additional reasons. President Trump
               did not want to accept that the Department of Justice was not an arm of his election
               campaign. He wanted to know why the Department did not assist in his campaigns civil suits against States. There was a simple answer: There was no evidence to support the campaigns
               claims of fraud.155 
            Donoghue and Rosen also tried to explain to the President on this occasion and on
               several other occasions that the Justice Department has a very important, very specific,
               but very limited role in these elections.156 The States run their elections and DOJ is not quality control for the States.157 DOJ has a mission that relates to criminal conduct in relation to federal elections
               and also has related civil rights responsibilities.158 But DOJ cannot simply intervene to alter the outcome of an election or support a
               civil suit.159 
            When President Trump made these demands on December 27th, it was already crystal clear
               that the Department of Justice had found no evidence of systemic fraud.160 The Department simply had no reason to assert that the 2020 Presidential contest
               was an illegal corrupt election.161
            People tell me Jeff Clark is great and that I should put him in, President Trump
               said on the call. People want me to replace the DOJ leadership.162 Donoghue responded [S]ir, thats fine, you should have the leadership you want,
               but understand, changing the leadership in the Department wont change anything.163
            The President did not really care what facts had been uncovered by the Department
               of Justice. President Trump just wanted the Department to say the election was corrupt,
               so he and the Republican Congressmen could exploit the statement in the days to come,
               including on January 6th. And when Rosen and Donoghue resisted the Presidents entreaties,
               he openly mused about replacing Rosen with someone who would do the Presidents bidding.
               
            
                  Representative Scott Perry, November 14, 2022.
                  (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
               
            
            4.8 Congressman Scott Perry Calls Donoghue
            Toward the end of the December 27th call, President Trump asked Donoghue for his cell
               number.164 Later that day, Representative Perry called Donoghue to press the Presidents case.165 Representative Perry was one of President Trumps key congressional allies in the
               effort to overturn the elections results. Representative Perry was an early supporter
               of the Stop the Steal campaign and, as noted above, addressed the crowd at one such
               event outside the Pennsylvania State capitol in Harrisburg on November 5, 2020.166 In December 2020, Representative Perry was also one of 27 Republican Congressmen
               who signed a letter requesting that President Trump direct Attorney General Barr
               to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate irregularities in the 2020 election.
               December 9, 2020more than 1 week after Barr told the press there was no evidence
               of significant fraud.167 There was no reason to think that a Special Counsel was warranted. Representative
               Perry and the other congressmen advocated for one to be appointed anyway.
            Representative Perry attended the December 21st Oval Office meeting along with at least 10 other congressional Republicans to discuss the strategy for objecting to the electoral
               college votes on January 6th. Along with 125 other Republican Members of Congress, Representative Perry also supported Texass lawsuit against Pennsylvania and three other states.168 That is, Representative Perry supported Texass effort to nullify the certified electoral college vote from
               four states, including his own home state. 
            Donoghue took notes during his conversation with Representative Perry and provided those notes to the Select Committee.169 The notes reflect that when Representative Perry called Donoghue on December 27th, Representative Perry explained that President Trump asked him to call and that he, Representative Perry, did not think DOJ had been doing its job on the election.170 Representative Perry brought up other, unrelated matters and argued that the FBI doesnt always
               do the right thing in all instances.171 Representative Perry also brought up Jeff Clark. He said he liked him and thought that Clark would
               do something about this, meaning the election fraud allegations.172 
            On the evening of December 27th, Representative Perry emailed Donoghue a set of documents
               alleging significant voting fraud had occurred in Pennsylvania.173 One document asserted that election authorities had counted 205,000 more votes than
               had been cast.174 Representative Perry also shared this same claim on Twitter the following day.175 President Trump kept raising the same claim. Sometimes there was an alleged discrepancy
               of 205,000 votes, other times it was supposedly 250,000 votes.176 Either way, it was not true. 
            Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue forwarded Representative Perrys email to
               Scott Brady, who was the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania at
               the time.177 As Brady soon discovered, there was no discrepancy.178 President Trumps supporters came up with the claim by comparing the Pennsylvania
               Secretary of States website, which reported the total number of votes as 5.25 million,
               to a separate State election registry, which showed only 5 million votes cast.179 The problem was simple: Pennsylvanias election site had not been updated.180 The totals for four counties had not yet been reported on the election site. Once
               those votes were counted on the site, the totals matched. This was simply not an example
               of fraud, as President Trump, Representative Perry and others would have it. 
            4.9 December 28, 2020: The Clark Letter
            On December 28, 2020, Clark sent a 5-page draft letter to Donoghue and Rosen.181 The letter was addressed to three Georgia State officials: Governor Brian Kemp, Speaker
               of the House David Ralston, and President Pro Tempore of the Senate Butch Miller. It contained places for Rosen and Donoghue to affix their
               signatures, which they steadfastly refused to do.182 The letter, if signed and sent, may very well have provoked a constitutional crisis.183 
            The letter was attached to an email from Clark, in which he requested authorization
               to attend a classified briefing by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence
               (ODNI) led by DNI Ratcliffe on foreign election interference issues.184 ODNI did not find any foreign interference in the voting process or counting,185 but Clark apparently believed some of the conspiracy theories that had been floated.
               Specifically, Clark claimed that hackers have evidence (in the public domain) that
               a Dominion machine accessed the internet through a smart thermostat with a net connection
               trail leading back to China. Clark added: ODNI may have additional classified evidence.186 This crackpot claim had been shared by other Trump officials and associates as well.187 Ultimately, after Clark received the ODNI briefing, he acknowledged [to Donoghue]
               that there was nothing in that briefing that would have supported his earlier suspicion
               about foreign involvement.188   
            Clark intended to send the letter to officials in Georgia and several other contested
               States that President Trump needed to flip if he was going to overturn the election
               results. The Department of Justice is investigating various irregularities in the
               2020 election for President of the United States, Clark wrote.189 Clark continued: The Department will update you as we are able on investigatory
               progress, but at this time we have identified significant concerns that may have impacted
               the outcome of the election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia.190 
            Clark continued by arguing that Georgias State legislature should call a special
               session. In light of these developments, the Department recommends that the Georgia
               General Assembly should convene in special session so that its legislators are in
               a special position to take additional testimony, receive new evidence, and deliberate
               on the matter consistent with its duties under the U.S. Constitution, Clark wrote.191 Clark referenced the fake electors that the President and his campaign organized
               and argued that there were two competing slates of electors, both of which were legitimate.192 The Department believes that in Georgia and several other States, both a slate of
               electors supporting Joseph R. Biden, Jr., and a separate slate of electors supporting
               Donald J. Trump, gathered on [December 14, 2020] at the proper location to cast their
               ballots, and that both sets of those ballots have been transmitted to Washington,
               D.C., to be opened by Vice President Pence, Clark wrote.193 
            The letter was a lie. Senior DOJ officialsBarr, Rosen and Donoghuehad repeatedly
               stated the opposite. They found no evidence of fraud that would have impacted the
               elections resultsnone.  But since mid-November, the Trump Campaigns legal team
               under Giuliani attempted to execute its dual-track strategy of both filing lawsuits
               and convincing state legislatures in contested states to appoint separate slates of
               Presidential electors for President Trump.194 By late December, however, the dual-track approach had largely failed, and no legislatures
               had sent a second lawful slate of electors for Trump to Congress. Clearly, President
               Trump and his campaign team could not get the job done. So, the President and those
               around him sought to use the hefty imprimatur of the U.S. Department of Justice to
               achieve the same thing. No doubt, a letter coming from the Department of Justice is
               different from a meandering call from Giuliani or one of his associates. And, because
               it was December 28th and there was little more than a week until the January 6th joint
               session of Congress, President Trump needed more, and soon. Clarks letter, which
               laid out a plan that was almost identical to what President Trump and his team had
               pressured State officials to carry out virtually since election day, could have been
               just what President Trump needed.
            Several examples demonstrate the parallels between President Trumps and Rudolph Giulianis
               approach to overturning the election in November and December, and what Clark proposed
               in this letter. First, the letter sought to have the Georgia State legislature convene
               a special session to focus on allegations of fraud in the election.195 Giuliani and his team had been making calls to State legislatures and telling them
               in both official and unofficial State legislature committee hearings that State legislatures
               should convene in special sessions.196 They also argued that State legislatures had the authority to convene a special session
               themselves, despite limitations in State law requiring such a session to be convened
               by the governor.197 Clark included the same argument in his draft letter.198
            Additionally, the draft letter recommended that the Georgia legislature consider choosing
               the alternatefakeslate of electoral college electors that sent fake electoral college
               votes to Congress and Vice President Pence.199 Having State legislatures choose Trump electors in States where President Trump lost
               was one of the Trump teams early goals immediately after the election, but it didnt
               work.200 When no State legislature appointed its own set of electors before December 14th,
               the Trump Campaign arranged for electors to meet in contested States anyway and cast
               fake electoral college votes.201 This letter, with the Department of Justice seal at the top, was just one more way
               that President Trump and those close to him could pressure State officials to send
               competing electoral college votes to Congress for consideration during the joint session,
               despite former Vice President Bidens certified victory in each of the contested States.
            Despite the similarities between the requests in Clarks proposed letter and the requests
               that President Trump and his team made to State officials for nearly 2 months, the
               extent to which Clark directly coordinated his actions with the Trump Campaign and
               its outside advisors is unclear. Clark asserted his Fifth Amendment rights and various
               other privileges to avoid answering the Select Committees questions about these and
               other topics.202 When Giuliani was asked during his Select Committee deposition whether he remembered
               discussing DOJ issuing a letter like Clarks, Giuliani refused to answer because it
               implicated attorney-client privilege with President Trump, but when asked if he recalled
               ever recommending that Clark be given election-related responsibilities at DOJ, Giuliani
               said, I do recall saying to people that somebody should be put in charge of the Justice
               Department who isnt frightened of whats going to be done to their reputation, because
               the Justice Department was filled with people like that.203 And the investigation has also revealed that Clark and John Eastman were in communication
               throughout this period.204 
            One person who had worked with Eastman and others in his circle was a lawyer installed
               to work with Clark at the Department of Justice in mid-Decemberthe final weeks of
               the Trump administrationnamed Ken Klukowski.205 Klukowski was a Trump administration political appointee serving as a senior counsel
               under Clark in DOJs Civil Division.206 After serving as a lawyer in the Office and Management and Budget (OMB) for more
               than a year and volunteering as a lawyer for the Trump Campaign after election day,
               Klukowski only joined the Department when the administrations personnel staff expedite[d]
               his appointment because the White Houses Presidential Personnel Office want[ed]
               him in soon.207 
            On the morning of December 28th, Clark asked Klukowski to draft the Georgia letter
               for him.208 Clark dictated the substantive key points of the letter to Klukowski and told him
               exactly what to include.209 After several meetings with Clark throughout the day to update him on progress, Klukowski
               turned in his assignment and gave the letter to Clark, which Clark sent along to Acting
               Attorney General Rosen and Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue, as described above.210
            Donoghue quickly responded to Clarks email, stating there is no chance that I would
               sign this letter or anything remotely like this.211 The plan set forth by Clark was not even within the realm of possibility.212 Donoghue warned that if they sent Clarks letter, it would be a grave step for the
               Department to take and it could have tremendous Constitutional, political and social
               ramifications for the country.213 Contrary to President Trumps and Clarks wild claims about the election, Donoghue
               stressed that DOJs ongoing investigations related to matters of such a small scale
               that they simply would not impact the outcome of the Presidential Election.214 Clarks assertion to the contrary was baseless. 
            Donoghue and Rosen reaffirmed their strong opposition to the draft letter in a contentious
               meeting with Clark on December 28th.215 What you are doing is nothing less than the United States Justice Department meddling
               in the outcome of a presidential election, Donoghue admonished Clark, to which Clark
               indignantly responded, I think a lot of people have meddled in this election.216  
            Under questioning by Rosen and Donoghue, Clark eventually also revealed that he had
               been in a meeting in the Oval Office with President Trump. Donoghue demanded to know,
               Why the hell are we hearing your name from the President of the United States and
               a Congressman?217 When Clark was reminded that meeting the President without authorization or informing
               his superiors was a clear violation of the White House contacts policy, he retorted,
               Its a policy, theres a lot more at stake here than a policy.218 In fact, the contacts policy was designed for situations just like this where political
               figures might try to influence criminal investigations or legal actions taken by the
               Department of Justice, as President Trump attempting to do.219 
            In the days that followed, Clark called witnesses, got a briefing from ODNI and pursued
               his own investigations. Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue was shocked to learn
               that Clark did not cease his efforts even after learning there was no foreign interference.220 Instead of adhering to the facts, Clark doubled down. During a follow-up meeting
               on January 2nd, Clark acknowledged he had received the ODNI briefing, and he acknowledged
               that there was nothing in the briefing that would have supported his earlier suspicion
               about foreign involvement, but he nevertheless spewed out some of these theories,
               some of which wed heard from the President, but others which were floating around
               the internet and media, and just kept insisting that the Department needed to act
               and needed to send those letters.221
            4.10 December 29th Meeting
            The next day, Rosen, Donoghue, and Engel had a meeting with Mark Meadows, Pat Cipollone,
               and Cipollones deputy, Pat Philbin, in the White House Chief of Staffs office.222 While the meeting dealt primarily with the Presidential transition, the group discussed
               a draft civil complaint modeled after Texas v. Pennsylvania that the President wanted the Department of Justice to file challenging the results
               of the Presidential election, tentatively called United States v. Pennsylvania.223 The DOJ officials said that they had not had time to thoroughly review the proposed
               suit, but initially indicated that it appeared to be flawed and did not seem viable
               for DOJ to file.224 Meadows suggested that the DOJ leadership meet with William Olson and Kurt Olsen,
               the two attorneys affiliated with the Trump Campaign that had been working on the
               proposed suit, and added that Eastman and a retired judge from North Carolina named
               Mark Martin both had views about the lawsuit.225
            In this meeting, Meadows also raised a new and outrageous allegation of election fraud:
               that an Italian company had been involved in changing votes in the Presidential election.226 According to Meadows, there was a man, whom Donoghue later learned was in an Italian
               prison, who claimed to have information supporting the allegation and that CIA officers
               stationed in Rome were either aware of the plot to interfere in the election or had
               participated in it.227 Donoghue described how it was apparent that Meadows was not clear on the specifics
               of the allegation but passed them along to DOJ to investigate, nonetheless.228 Following the meeting Donoghue provided the information to the FBI, which quickly
               determined that the allegations were not credible.229 Meadows and other senior officials in the Trump administration, however, pressed
               DOJ to investigate every allegation of fraud regardless of how absurd or specious.
            In the days after the December 29th meeting with Meadows, the senior DOJ officials
               more closely examined the proposed United States v. Pennsylvania lawsuit and determined that DOJ could not file it.230 Engel was principally tasked with examining the veracity of the suit and summarized
               his analysis in a series of talking points that he provided to Donoghue on December
               31st.231 Engel concluded that for multiple reasons, the proposed lawsuit lacked merit. First,
               the U.S. Government did not have standing to challenge how a State administered its
               election.232 Such a challenge could only be brought by President Trump as a candidate and his
               campaign, or, possibly, an aggrieved electoral college elector.233 Second, there was no identified precedent in the history of the Supreme Court establishing
               that such a lawsuit could be filed by the U.S. Government.234 Third, by late December, States had already certified the results of their elections
               and the electoral college had met, so suing States by this point would not impact
               the results of the election.235 Finally, unlike Texas v. Pennsylvania, which was one State suing another State, this lawsuit would not automatically be
               heard by the Supreme Court, so it should have been filed in a Federal district court
               months priorif at allto have any possibility of impacting the outcome of the election.236
            
                  Steven Engel testifies before the Select Committee on June 23, 2022.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            When asked about it during his interview with the Select Committee, Engel described
               United States v. Pennsylvania as a meritless lawsuit and said, there was never a question about whether the
               Department was going to file it.237 As senior DOJ officials had already explained to President Trump multiple times in
               November and December 2020, the Department of Justice was strictly limited in what
               election-related actions it could take. It could not oversee States actions in administering
               their elections, and it could not support litigation filed by President Trumps campaign.238 Nonetheless, President Trump continued to push DOJ to file this lawsuit over the
               following days and essentially act as an arm of his political campaign. 
            4.11 Rosens December 30th Call with President Trump
            Even after the December 29th meeting, President Trump and those working on his behalf
               still wanted DOJ leadership to file United States v. Pennsylvania. On December 30th, Acting Attorney General Rosen had a phone call with President
               Trump that included a discussion about the lawsuit.239 During the call, Rosen clearly explained to the President that DOJ could not file
               the lawsuit.240 Rosen said, This doesnt work. Theres multiple problems with it. And the Department
               of Justice is not going to be able to do it.241 According to Rosen, President Trump accepted what he said without argument.242 Yet President Trump and his allies continued pressuring the Department to file the
               lawsuit.
            4.12 December 31st Meeting
            On December 31st, 2020, President Trump suddenly returned to Washington, DC, from
               Florida, where he had been celebrating Christmas. Shortly after Air Force One landed,
               Rosen and Donoghue were summoned to the Oval Office once again. They met with the
               President that afternoon. President Trump was a little more agitated than he had
               been in the meeting on the 15th, according to Donoghue.243 The President remained adamant that the election has been stolen, that he won, that
               the American people were being harmed by fraud, and that he believed the Justice Department
               should be doing something about it.244
            The President once again raised the prospect of naming Clark the Acting Attorney General.245 Donoghue and Rosen repeated what they had told the President previouslythat he should
               have the leaders that he wanted, but its really not going to change anything.246 
            President Trump again asked why DOJ would not file a complaint with the Supreme Court,
               alleging that the election was fraudulent. Rosen and Donoghue explained, once more,
               that the DOJ did not have standing.247 DOJ represents the Federal government, not the American people. President Trump was
               incredulous and became very animated.248 The President kept repeating the same questions, How is that possible? How can that
               possibly be?249
            President Trump also floated the prospect of naming a special counsel, suggesting
               Ken Cuccinelli from the Department of Homeland Security as a possible candidate.250 This sounds like the kind of thing that would warrant appointment of a special counsel,
               Donoghue recalled the President saying.251 The President did not order the DOJ to name a special counsel, but he was clearly
               still thinking about it. Donoghue and Rosen didnt say a lot in response, but simply
               pointed out that there was no evidence to support the many individual allegations
               that had been made, so there was no evidence that would warrant appointing a special
               counsel.252 
            President Trump again raised the Antrim County, Michigan allegations.253 As mentioned above, bipartisan election officials in Antrim County completed a hand
               recount of all ballots on December 17th.254 This should have resolved the matter once and for all. There was simply no evidence
               that Dominions machines had manipulated the result. But President Trump would not accept this reality. 
            During the December 31st meeting, the President also raised the prospect of seizing
               the voting machines. Why dont you guys seize machines? he asked.255 You guys should seize machines because there will be evidence, Donoghue recalled
               President Trump saying.256 Rosen pushed back, saying the DOJ had no basis to seize voting machines from the
               States. They needed a search warrant, but there was no evidence to justify one.257 Rosen explained to President Trump again that the DOJ has no responsibility for oversight,
               as the States conduct the elections. Rosen added that to the extent that any Federal
               agency is involved, it is the Department of Homeland Security, which ensures software
               selection and quality control.258 At that point, the President called Ken Cuccinelli.259 Donoghue recalled the President saying something along the lines of, Ken, the Acting
               Attorney General is telling me its your job to seize machines.260 Rosen had said nothing of the sort, but Cuccinelli quickly shot down the Presidents
               line of inquiry, making it clear that the Department of Homeland Security had no such
               authority.261 White House Counsel Pat Cipollone was also in attendance and supported the DOJ leadership
               throughout the meeting.262
            When Rosen spoke to Clark by phone on December 31st or January 1st, Clark revealed that he had spoken to the President again, despite previously promising
               Rosen and Donoghue that he would inform them of any other contact that he received
               from the White House.263 Clark told Rosen that President Trump had offered Clark the position of Acting Attorney
               General and asked him to respond by Monday, January 4th. Clark, however, said that
               he needed to do some due diligence related to claims of election fraud before deciding
               whether he would accept the Presidents offer.264
            4.13 January 2, 2021: Rosen and Donoghue Confront Clark Again
            On Saturday, January 2nd, Rosen and Donoghue attempted, once again, to persuade Clark
               to stand down. The two reiterated that Clark should stop meeting with the President.265 Donoghue reprimanded Clark, emphasizing that he was the boss and that Clarks ongoing
               contacts with the President were a violation of DOJs White House contact policy.266 Clark acknowledged that he had been briefed by the ODNI, as he had requested, and
               that there was nothing in that briefing that would have supported his earlier suspicion
               about foreign involvement.267 Nevertheless, Clark still wanted to send his letter to Georgia and other contested
               States alleging voter fraud.268 
            During the conversation, Clark confirmed President Trump had offered him the position
               of Acting Attorney General.269 Clark told Rosen that he would decline the offerif Rosen and Donoghue signed his
               dishonest letter to officials in Georgia.270 The two refused once again, making it clear that there was no way we were going
               to sign that letter.271 Rosen reiterated his decision in an email on the night of January 2nd, writing: I
               confirmed again today that I am not prepared to sign such a letter.272
            That same day, President Trump attempted to coerce Georgia Secretary of State Brad
               Raffensperger into manufacturing enough votes to steal the election in that State.
               That call is discussed in Chapter 2 of this report. But one part of it deserves mention
               here. During that same call, President Trump brought up BJay Pak, whom President Trump
               had appointed as the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. President
               Trump referred to Pak as your never-Trumper U.S. attorney there.273 The implication was that Pak was not doing enough to validate President Trumps fictitious
               claims of voter fraud. President Trumps mention of Pak proved to be ominous.
            4.14 January 3, 2021: Clark Informs DOJ Leadership that He Will Accept President Trumps
               Offer
            On January 3rd, Clark informed Rosen that he had decided to accept the Presidents
               offer to serve as the Acting Attorney General. Clark offered Rosen the position of
               his deputy.274 Rosen thought that Clarks offer was preposterous and nonsensical.275 Rosen told the Select Committee that there was no universe where I was going to do that to stay on and support someone
               else doing things that were not consistent with what I thought should be done.276 Donoghue believed it was a done deal, and Clark would become the head of DOJ. But
               Pat Cipollone told Rosen that it was not a done deal and that we should fight this
               out at the White House.277
            White House call logs from January 3rd show that President Trump and Clark spoke four
               times that day starting at 6:59 a.m.278 The first three calls of the day, two in the morning and one in the early afternoon,
               show that the President spoke with Mr. Jeffrey Clark.279 The final call between the two of them, from 4:19 to 4:22 p.m., however, shows that
               President Trump spoke to Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Clark, suggesting that
               Clark had, in fact, accepted the Presidents offer.280 
            Acting Attorney General Rosen told the Select Committee that he would have felt comfortable
               being replaced by either Donoghue or Engel, but he did not want for the Department
               of Justice to be put in a posture where it would be doing things that were not consistent
               with the truth, were not consistent with its own appropriate role, or were not consistent
               with the Constitution.281 
            As a result, Rosen took four immediate steps to try and prevent Clarks ascension
               to Attorney General. First, he called Meadows and asked him to set up a meeting for
               that evening with President Trump.282 Second, he spoke to Cipollone, who told Rosen that Clarks appointment was not inevitable
               and that he would also be at the meeting that evening to support Rosen and Donoghue.283 Third, Rosen called Engel and asked him to come to DOJ headquarters so he could attend
               the White House meeting.284 Finally, Rosen asked Donoghue and another senior Department attorney named Patrick
               Hovakimian to convene a meeting of the rest of the Departments leadership to describe
               the situation to them and hear how they would react to Clarks appointment.285 
            Hovakimian set up a conference call. Although some of the Assistant Attorneys General
               were not able to participate in the call, all of those who did agreed that they would
               resign if Rosen were removed from office.286 Pat Hovakimian drafted a resignation letter that read:
            This evening, after Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen over the course of the last
               week repeatedly refused the Presidents direct instructions to utilize the Department
               of Justices law enforcement powers for improper ends, the President removed Jeff
               from the Department. PADAG Rich Donoghue and I resign from the Department, effectively
               immediately.287  
            Hovakimian never sent the letter because the threat of mass resignations dissuaded
               President Trump from replacing Rosen. Regardless, the letter stated a plain truth:
               President Trump was trying to use DOJ for his own improper ends. 
            The January 3, 2021, Oval Office meeting
            At Rosens request, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows arranged a meeting with the President at 6:15 p.m. that evening.288 
            
                  Select Committee graphic 
               
            
            We should pause to reflect on the timing and purpose of the meeting. Congress was
               set to meet in a joint session in less than 72 hours. The States had already certified
               their electors. Former Vice President Biden was going to be certified as the winner
               of the 2020 Presidential election. There was no material dispute over Bidens victory.
               Trump and his lawyers had not produced any evidence of significant fraud. Instead,
               they presented one nonsensical conspiracy theory after another. The DOJ and FBI were
               forced to debunk these claimsand they did. 
            None of this stopped President Trumps effort to subvert DOJ. Quite the opposite.
               The President pushed forward with a plan to install Jeff Clark as the Acting Attorney
               General, apparently to attempt to interfere with the certification of the electoral
               college vote on January 6th. It is for this reason Rosen requested an emergency meeting
               on January 3rd. 
            Before heading into the Oval Office, Rosen and Donoghue discussed the possible leadership
               change with Cipollone and Pat Philbin. They were completely opposed to it, Donoghue
               explained.289 In fact, no one who attended the Oval Office meeting supported the leadership changeother
               than Jeff Clark.290 Donoghue didnt initially join the meeting, but the President soon called him in.291 
            During the meeting, Clark attempted to defend the last-minute move to make him Acting
               Attorney General. Clark said he would conduct real investigations that would, in
               his view, uncover widespread fraud.292 Clark declared that this was the last opportunity to sort of set things straight
               with this defective election, and he had the intelligence, the will, and desire
               to pursue these matters in the way that the President thought most appropriate.293 Everyone else quickly disagreed.294
            President Trump asked Donoghue and Engel what they would do, and both confirmed they
               would resign.295 Donoghue added that theirs would not be the only resignations. You should understand
               that your entire Department leadership will resign, Donoghue recalled saying.296 This included every Assistant Attorney General. Mr. President, these arent bureaucratic
               leftovers from another administration, Donoghue continued.297 You picked them. This is your leadership team. You sent every one of them to the
               Senate; you got them confirmed.298 Donoghue argued that the President would look bad in the wake of the mass resignations.
               What is that going to say about you, when we all walk out at the same time?299 Donoghue recalled asking the President. And what happens if, within 48 hours, we
               have hundreds of resignations from your Justice Department because of your actions?
               What does that say about your leadership?300 Steve Engel reinforced Donoghues point, saying that Clark would be leading a graveyard.301
            White House Counsel Pat Cipollone threatened to resign as well, describing Clarks
               letter as a murder-suicide pact.302 Cipollone warned that the letter would damage everyone who touches it and no one
               should have anything to do with it.303 
            Some of the participants in the meeting argued that Clark was the wrong person for
               the job of Attorney General.  Clark attempted to defend his credentials, arguing that
               he had been involved in complicated civil and environmental litigation.304  Thats right. Youre an environmental lawyer, Donoghue fired back.305 How about you go back to your office, and well call you when theres an oil spill.306 
            The meeting lasted approximately 3 hours.307 Only toward the end of the contentious affair did President Trump decide to reverse
               his earlier decision to make Clark the Acting Assistant Attorney General. Donoghue
               recalled President Trump addressing Clark along the following lines: 
            I appreciate your willingness to do it. I appreciate you being willing to suffer the
               abuse. But the reality is, youre not going to get anything done. These guys are going
               to quit. Everyone else is going to resign. Its going to be a disaster. The bureaucracy
               will eat you alive. And no matter how you want to get things done in the next few
               weeks, you wont be able to get it done, and its not going to be worth the breakage.308 
            Clark tried to change President Trumps mind, saying history is calling, this our
               opportunity and we can get this done.309 But the President was clearly rattled by the threat of mass defections and reiterated
               that the change would not happen. President Trump then wondered what would happen
               to Clark, and if Donoghue was going to fire him. Donoghue explained that only the
               President had that authority. That was the end of the matter. And we all got up and
               walked out of the Oval Office, Donoghue recalled.310
            But for one DOJ employee, the matter was not entirely settled. During the January
               3rd meeting in the Oval Office, President Trump complained bitterly about BJay Pak,
               the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia.311 Barr had tasked Pak with investigating the State Farm Arena video in early December
               2020. Like the FBI and Georgia State officials, Pak concluded that nothing nefarious
               had occurred. President Trump was dissatisfied.312 
            No wonder nothings been found in Atlanta, because the U.S. attorney there is a Never
               Trumper, Donoghue recalled the President saying.313 Donoghue objected, saying Pak had been doing his job.314 But the President insisted, pointing out that Pak criticized him years earlier. This
               guy is a Never Trumper, the President reiterated.315 He should never have been in my administration to begin with. How did this guy end
               up in my administration?316 The President threatened to fire Pak.317 When Donoghue pointed out that Pak was already planning to resign the next day, a
               Monday, President Trump insisted that it be Paks last day on the job.318 Pak later confirmed to Donoghue that he would be leaving the next day.319
            President Trump asked if those in attendance at the Oval Office meeting knew Bobby
               Christine, who was the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia.320 Even though Pak had a first assistant, who was next in line for Paks job upon his
               resignation, President Trump wanted Christine to take the role.321 Christine did take over for Pak, but he did not find any evidence of fraud either.
               It was Donoghues impression that Christine concluded that the election matters .
               . . were handled appropriately.322
            Later in the evening of January 3rd, President Trump called Donoghue to pass along yet another conspiracy theory.323 The President had heard that an ICE agent outside of Atlanta was in custody of a truck filled with shredded ballots.324 Donoghue explained that ICE agents are part of the Department of Homeland Security, so the matter would be under that Departments purview. President Trump asked Donoghue to inform Ken Cuccinelli.325 That storylike all the othersturned out to be fiction when DOJ investigators evaluated the claim. The truck was carrying shredded ballots, but they were from a previous election. The old ballots had been shredded to make room for storing ballots from
               the 2020 election.326 
            4.15 President Trumps Unprecedented Attempt to Subvert the DOJ
            The most senior DOJ officials at the end of President Trumps term stopped him from
               co-opting Americas leading law enforcement agency for his own corrupt purposes. Recall
               that Attorney General Barr commented you cant live in a world where the incumbent
               administration stays in power based on its view, unsupported by specific evidence,
               that the electionthat there was fraud in the election.327 
            Richard Donoghue concluded that Jeffrey Clarks letter may very well have spiraled
               us into a constitutional crisis.328
            Jeffrey Rosen summed up his short time as the Acting Attorney General like this:
            [D]uring my tenure, we appointed no special prosecutors, we sent no letters to States
               or State legislators disputing the election outcome; we made no public statements
               saying the election was corrupt and should be overturned; we initiated no Supreme
               Court actions, nor filed or joined any other lawsuits calling into question the legitimacy
               of our election and institutions.329
            President Trump attempted to get DOJ to do each of those things. 
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 8. The Select Committee
                  recognizes and appreciates the investigation conducted by the Senate Committee on
                  the Judiciary and the report it issued about this Chapters topic. See Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 117th Cong. 1st sess., Subverting Justice: How the Former President and His Allies Pressured DOJ to Overturn
                     the 2020 Election, (Oct. 7, 2021), available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Interim%20Staff%20Report%20FINAL.pdf.
               2.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 8; See Margaret Talev, Exclusive: Dem Group Warns of Apparent Trump Election Day Landslide, Axios, (Sept. 1, 2020), available at https://www.axios.com/2020/09/01/bloomberg-group-trump-election-night-scenarios. 
               3.  See Chapter 1.
               4.  See Chapter 1.
               5.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 89.
               6.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 89.
               7.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 89.
               8.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 89.
               9.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 9.
               10.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 23.
               11.  Richard C. Pilger, ed., Federal Prosecution of Election Offenses: Eighth Edition, Department of Justice (December 2017), p. 84, available at https://www.justice.gov/criminal/file/1029066/download. 
               12.  Richard C. Pilger, ed., Federal Prosecution of Election Offenses: Eighth Edition,
                  Department of Justice (December 2017), p. 84 available at https://www.justice.gov/criminal/file/1029066/download. The DOJ further advises that federal law enforcement personnel should carefully
                  evaluate whether an investigative step under consideration has the potential to affect
                  the election itself. The departments concern is that [s]tarting a public criminal
                  investigation of alleged election fraud before the election to which the allegations
                  pertain has been concluded runs the obvious risk of chilling legitimate voting and
                  campaign activities. Moreover, [i]t also runs the significant risk of interjecting
                  the investigation itself as an issue, both in the campaign and in the adjudication
                  of any ensuing election contest. Id.
               13.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HouseSelect-Jan6-PartII-01132022-000616-617
                  (November 9, 2020, memorandum from Attorney General Barr).
               14.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HouseSelect-Jan6-PartII-01132022-000616-617
                  (November 9, 2020, memorandum from Attorney General Barr).
               15.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HouseSelect-Jan6-PartII-01132022-000616-617
                  (November 9, 2020, memorandum from Attorney General Barr).
               16.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18. 
               17.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               18.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               19.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               20.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               21.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               22.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 1819.
               23.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               24.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               25.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               26.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19.
               27.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19.
               28.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19.
               29.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19.
               30.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19
               31.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 19. 
               32.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 1920.
               33.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 20.
               34.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 22.
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2223.
               36.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2223.
               37.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview. 
               38.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               39.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               40.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               41.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, at 4:20, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               42.  Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November 29, 2020,
                  Vimeo, at 4:25, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               43.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               44.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               45.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               46.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               47.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               48.  Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During First Interview Since the Election,
                  YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November 29, 2020,
                  Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at ; Fox News, Trump Asks, Wheres Durham? During
                  First Interview Since the Election, YouTube, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szStcNBIL68; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.https://vimeo.com/485180163; see also Alexis Benveniste, Fox News Maria Bartiromo Gave Trump His First TV Interview Since
                  the Election. It Was Filled with Lies, CNN (Nov. 29, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/29/media/bartiromo-trump-interview.
               49.  Michael Balsamo, Disputing Trump, Barr Says No Widespread Election Fraud, Associated Press, (Dec. 1, 2020, updated June 28, 2022), available at https://apnews.com/article/barr-no-widespread-election-fraud-b1f1488796c9a98c4b1a9061a6c7f49d. 
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2324. Also attending the
                  meeting were Pat Cipollone (Chief White House Counsel to the President), Pat Philbin
                  (Deputy White House Counsel to the President), Eric Herschmann, and Barrs chief of
                  staff, Will Levi. Id.
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2324.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2324.
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2324.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2324.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2425.
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2526.
               57.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 11, 2526.
               58.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 25.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 25.
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 25.
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 25.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 25.
               63.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2526.
               64.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2526.
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 26.
               66.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 26. 
               67.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 26. 
               68.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 26. 
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 26.
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2628.
               71.  Campaign 2020: President Trump Statement on 2020 Election Results, C-SPAN, Dec.
                  2, 2020, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?506975-1/president-trump-statement-2020-election-results; Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, (Dec.
                  2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2. 
               72.  Campaign 2020: President Trump Statement on 2020 Election Results, C-SPAN, Dec.
                  2, 2020, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?506975-1/president-trump-statement-2020-election-results; Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, (Dec.
                  2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2.
               73.  Campaign 2020: President Trump Statement on 2020 Election Results, C-SPAN, Dec.
                  2, 2020, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?506975-1/president-trump-statement-2020-election-results; Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, (Dec.
                  2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2.
                  Trump said: Heres an example. This is Michigan. At 6:31 in the morning, a vote dump of 149,772 votes
                  came in unexpectedly. We were winning by a lot. That batch was received in horror.
                  We have a company thats very suspect. Its name is Dominion. With the turn of a dial or the change of a chip,
                  you can press a button for Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system
                  is this? Id.
               74.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 1:56:30 - 1:57:15,
                  5:29:20 - 5:32:45, Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. 
               75.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 1:56:30 - 1:57:15,
                  5:29:20 - 5:32:45, Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. 
               76.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate Election Hearing, YouTube, at 0:33:30 - 0:58:00,
                  Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. The Trump campaign also shared the video online. Donald J Trump, Video from GA
                  Shows Suitcases Filled with Ballots Pulled from Under a Table AFTER Poll Workers Left,
                  YouTube, Dec. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nVP_60Hm4P8. 
               77.  Gabriel Sterling (@GabrielSterling), Twitter, Dec. 4, 2020 6:41 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/GabrielSterling/status/1334825233610633217?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1334825233610633217%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&amp;ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gpb.org%2Fnews%2F2020%2F12%2F04%2Ffact-checking-rudy-giulianis-grandiose-georgia-election-fraud-claim. At the time, Gabe Sterling was the Chief Operating Officer in the Georgia Secretary
                  of States Office.
               78.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               79.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               80.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Byung Jin Pak, (May 19, 2022), p. 19.
               81.  Read William Barrs Resignation Letter to President Trump, Washington Post, (Dec. 14, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/context/read-william-barr-s-resignation-letter-to-president-trump/2b0820cb-3890-498a-bd46-c1b248049c70/?itid=lk_inline_manual_4. 
               82.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 6566.
               83.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 28. 
               84.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 28.
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 2830. 
               86.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 30. 
               87.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 32. 
               88.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 32. 
               89.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 3940. 
               90.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000425,
                  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000426, HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000429
                  (December 14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Jeffrey Rosen subject From POTUS
                  with two attachments).
               91.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000425, HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000426,
                  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000429 (December 14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Jeffrey Rosen subject From POTUS
                     with two attachments).
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 3233.
               93.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               96.  U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Aug.
                  7, 2021), at p. 34, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript.pdf. 
               97.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R001080 (December
                  21, 2020, WAVES visitor records).
               98.  Mark Meadows (@MarkMeadows), Twitter, Dec. 21, 2020 6:03 pm, available at https://twitter.com/MarkMeadows/status/1341157317451124745. 
               99.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R001080 (WAVES visitor
                  records for December 21, 2020).
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (March 24, 2022), pp. 20506; Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), 076P-R000009364_0001 (December 21 and 22, 2020 email
                  chain between Molly Michael and Jeffrey Clark discussing a December 22, 2020 meeting
                  at the White House); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000009365_0001
                  (December 22, 2020 email from Molly Michael to staff regarding a meeting at 6 p.m.
                  in the Yellow Oval with Jeffrey Clark and another guest); Jonathan Tamari &amp; Chris
                  Brennan, Pa. Congressman Scott Perry Acknowledges Introducing Trump to Lawyer at
                  the Center of Election Plot, Philadelphia Inquirer, (Jan. 25, 2021), available at https://www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/scott-perry-trump-georgia-election-results-20210125.html. 
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 5253.
               102.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022),  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               103.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022),  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               104.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 117th sess.,  (June 23, 2022),  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               105.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 5556, 78.
               106.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 5556.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 5355. 
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               109.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022),  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               110.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022),  available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000681
                  (May 11, 2009, memorandum laying out the policy for Communications with the White
                  House and Congress).
               112.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014099 (December 26, 2020,
                     text message from Rep. Perry to Mark Meadows). 
               113.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM0140100 (December 26, 2020,
                     text message from Rep. Perry to Mark Meadows).
               114.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014101 (December 26, 2020,
                     text message from Mark Meadows to Rep. Perry).
               115.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014102-014103, MM014178.
               116.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 4748.
               117.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000735.
               118.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000735;
                     Ryan Deto, Sen. Mastriano and Former State Rep. Saccone among Trump Supporters who Occupied U.S. Capitol, Pittsburgh City Paper, (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.pghcitypaper.com/pittsburgh/sen-mastriano-and-former-state-rep-saccone-among-trump-supporters-who-occupied-us-capitol/Content?oid=18690728; Erin Bamer, Mastriano Defends Protest Appearance; Other GOP Lawmakers Say Little, York Dispatch, (Jan. 7, 2021), available at https://www.yorkdispatch.com/story/news/2021/01/07/mastriano-at-no-point-did-he-storm-us-capitol/6579049002/.
               119.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 47-50; see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000735.
               120.  Dan Geiter, Rally to Stop the Steal of the 2020 Election PennLive, (Nov. 5, 2020) available at https://www.pennlive.com/galleries/J3FJ24LCKVCT5OW3U2TJ6BV4RE/. 
               121.  See, e.g., Scott Perry for Congress, #StopTheSteal, Facebook, November 6, 2020, available
                  at https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=406418637058079. 
               122.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 4748, 53.
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               124.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               125.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump). 
               126.  Hand Audit of All Presidential Election Votes in Antrim County Confirms Previously
                  Certified Results, Voting Machines Were Accurate, Michigan Secretary of State, (Dec.
                  17, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/resources/news/2020/12/17/hand-audit-of-all-presidential-election-votes-in-antrim-county-confirms-previously-certified-result. 
               127.  Hand Audit of All Presidential Election Votes in Antrim County Confirms Previously
                     Certified Results, Voting Machines Were Accurate, Michigan Secretary of State, (Dec. 17, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/resources/news/2020/12/17/hand-audit-of-all-presidential-election-votes-in-antrim-county-confirms-previously-certified-result. 
               128.  Hand Audit of All Presidential Election Votes in Antrim County Confirms Previously
                     Certified Results, Voting Machines Were Accurate, Michigan Secretary of State, (Dec. 17, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/resources/news/2020/12/17/hand-audit-of-all-presidential-election-votes-in-antrim-county-confirms-previously-certified-result. 
               129.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               130.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th?path=/browsecommittee/chamber/house/committee/january6th.
               131.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60. 
               132.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               133.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 55; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               134.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 55; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               135.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 55.
               136.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 55-56; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               137.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               138.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 54; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               139.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 54; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               140.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 54; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 64; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000741
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60.
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60.
               144.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 6061.
               145.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 6061.
               146.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 6061.
               147.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 5455; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump). 
               148.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 54, 58; Documents
                     on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                     States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737, HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738
                     (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                     Trump).
               149.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 54, 58; Documents
                     on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                     States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737,
                     HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes
                     from Richard Donoghue about call with President Trump).
               150.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 54, 58; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000737,
                  HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump). 
               151.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 58; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738,
                  HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump). 
               152.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 58. Trump also
                  mentioned the possibility of the DOJ saying the election is corrupt or suspect or
                  not reliable during a public press conference. We told him we were not going to
                  do that, Donoghue explained. Id. at p. 59.
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 62; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000740
                  (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739,
                  HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000740 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                  Trump).
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 61.
               156.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               157.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               158.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               160.  Donoghue testified before the Select Committee: There were isolated instances of
                     fraud. None of them came close to calling into question the outcome of the election
                     in any individual state. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                     the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong.,
                     2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6thSelect. 
               161.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 62; Documents
                     on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                     States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000740 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with President
                     Trump).
               162.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 62.
               163.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 62.
               164.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 65.
               165.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 72-75.
               166.  Dan Gleiter, Rally to Stop the Steal of the 2020 Election, Penn Live, (Nov. 5, 2020), available at https://www.pennlive.com/galleries/J3FJ24LCKVCT5OW3U2TJ6BV4RE/. 
               167.  Letter from the Office of Rep. Lance Gooden and Signed by 26 other Members of Congress
                  to the President of the United States, Dec. 9, 2020, available at https://www.politico.com/f/?id=00000176-4701-d52c-ad7e-d7fdbfe50000. 
               168.  Motion for Leave to File Amicus Brief by U.S. Representative Mike Johnson and 125
                  other Members, Texas v. Pennsylvania, 592 U.S. ____ (Dec. 10, 2020) (No. 155, Orig.), available at https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/22/22O155/163550/20201211132250339_Texas%20v.%20Pennsylvania%20Amicus%20Brief%20of%20126%20Representatives%20--%20corrected.pdf. 
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7273; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000705,
                     HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000706, (Dec. 27, 2020, handwritten notes).
                     Donoghues handwritten notes from the call are dated Dec. 28, 2020, but he confirmed
                     the call took place on Dec. 27.
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue,
                     (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7273; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000705,
                     HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000706, (Dec. 27, 2020, handwritten notes).
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7273; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000705,
                     HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000705, (Dec. 27, 2020, handwritten notes).
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 73; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000705, HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000706, (Dec. 27, 2020, handwritten notes).
               173.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000001
                  - HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000018.
               174.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000008.
               175.  RepScottPerry (@RepScotPerry), Twitter, Dec. 28, 2020 6:01 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/RepScottPerry/status/1343693703664308225. 
               176.  See Chapter 1. 
               177.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7475.
               178.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7576.
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7576.
               180.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 7576.
               181.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               182.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.; Documents on file with the Select
                     Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Department
                     of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200 (December 28,
                     2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen, including
                     Rosens reply to Donoghue; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               183.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               184.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702. 
               185.  See National Intelligence Council, Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, (Mar. 10, 2021), available at https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/reports-publications/reports-publications-2021/item/2192-intelligence-community-assessment-on-foreign-threats-to-the-2020-u-s-federal-elections (declassified version of a January 7, 2021, report to President Trump, senior Executive
                  Branch officials, and Congressional leadership). The report concluded, among other
                  things, We have no indications that any foreign actor attempted to alter any technical
                  aspect of the voting process in the 2020 US elections, including voter registration,
                  casting ballots, vote tabulation, or reporting results.
               186.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               187.  Zachary Cohen &amp; Sara Murray, New Details Shed Light on Ways Mark Meadows Pushed
                  Federal Agencies to Pursue Dubious Election Claims, CNN, (Dec. 2, 2021), available
                  at https://www.cnn.com/2021/12/02/politics/mark-meadows-election-fraud-liaison/index.html; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022) at pp. 16869.
               188.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 113.
               189.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               190.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               191.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               192.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                      HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               193.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               194.  See Chapters 2 and 3 regarding the Trump Campaigns efforts to overturn the results of
                  the election in contested states and have fake Electoral College electors submit fake
                  votes to Congress.
               195.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               196.  See Chapter 2 for additional information on these hearings. 
               197.  See Chapter 2; see also Ga. Const., art. V,  2,  VII.
               198.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                   HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               199.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698
                   HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702.
               200.  See Chapter 2.
               201.  See Chapter 3.
               202.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeffrey Clark, (Feb 2, 2022), pp. 2427.
               203.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 10103.
               204.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman production), Chapman061893 (January 1, 2021,
                  emails between Jeffrey Clark and John Eastman); see Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production, July 1, 2022) (showing five calls
                  between John Eastman and Jeffrey Clark from January 1, 2021, through January 8, 2021).
               205.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski (Dec. 15, 2021), p. 182. The Select Committee questioned,
                  and sought documents from, Klukowski about his interactions with Eastman and others
                  related to the 2020 election and the January 6th joint session of Congress. Klukowski,
                  however, objected to certain questions, and withheld a number of relevant communications,
                  on the basis of attorney-client privilege, work product, or the First Amendment, including
                  communications that he had with Eastman. For example, on December 9th, before Klukowski
                  joined the Department of Justice, he sent an email to Eastman with an attachment of
                  draft talking points arguing that state legislators in states where Biden won could
                  disregard the election results and appoint electors for Trump. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman028219, Chapman028220
                  (December 9, 2020, email from Klukowski to Eastman, attaching memo). Those same talking
                  points were circulated the same day among Ken Blackwell, Ed Meese, John Eastman, Jason
                  Miller, Alan Dershowitz, and Chief of Staff Mark Meadows with Blackwells comment,
                  A constitutional road map to victory and DJTs reelection! Its a matter of political
                  will and courage to do the right thing. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman027943, Chapman027944
                  (Klukowski was not included on the email from Blackwell, but his talking points were
                  attached). During his deposition with the Select Committee, Klukowski said that the
                  document containing the talking points looked like a document he had drafted, but
                  asserted attorney-client privilege when asked certain questions asked about the document.
                  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (June 10, 2022), pp. 27-29. The Select
                  Committee also obtained from a source other than  Klukowski an email sent to him,
                  Eastman, Rep. Louis Gohmerts Chief of Staff, and others on December 28th with the
                  subject line VP Briefing on 1/6/21 Meeting and a message from Edward Corrigan that
                  said, I believe the VP and his staff would benefit greatly from a briefing by John
                  and Ken but cautioned to make sure we dont overexpose Ken given his new position.
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman056164 (December
                  28, 2020, email to Klukowski and others). Klukowski said he never participated in
                  such a briefing, but Eastman did in the days leading up to January 6th and encouraged
                  the Vice President to prevent or delay the certification of the presidential election
                  during the joint session of Congress. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (June 10, 2022), pp. 5057; see also Chapter 5 about Eastman and his communications with the Vice President. As described
                  here, Klukowski drafted the letter for Clark that included discussions about state
                  legislatures, Electoral College electors, and the joint session of Congress.
               206.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski (Dec. 15, 2021), p. 17. 
               207.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), p. 23; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Department of Justice Production), HouseSelect-Jan6-PartII-12142021-000104. Klukowskis
                  first day on the job was December 15th. When asked why he would be willing to start
                  a job on December 15th that would end by January 20th, Klukowski said that he had
                  been trying to get to the Department of Justice for several months, he was hopeful
                  that he could get as many medals on my chest as possible during that short period
                  of time, and given that it was going to cross the New Years dateline, [he] figured
                  [his] resume would say Department of Justice 2020 and 2021, enabling him to get into
                  an interview for future jobs before a future employer would find out how few of days
                  in each of those calendar years we were actually talking about. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 30, 41.
               208.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 6566.
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 7173.
               210.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 66, 7576.
               211.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen,
                     including Rosens reply to Donoghue).
               212.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen,
                     including Rosens reply to Donoghue).
               213.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen,
                     including Rosens reply to Donoghue).
               214.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen,
                     including Rosens reply to Donoghue).
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 8182.
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 82. 
               217.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 83. 
               218.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 82. 
               219.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000681
                  (Department of Justice policy), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000685 (White
                  House policy).
               220.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               221.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               222.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Engel, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 2728. 
               223.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 8687; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 7980, 9192, 13233. 
               224.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9193, 13233. 
               225.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 87; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9193, 13233. 
               226.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 8889; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000678
                  (January 1, 2021, email from Mark Meadows to Jeffrey Rosen with link to YouTube video);
                  Brad Johnson, Rome, Satellites, Servers: an Update, YouTube, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210102201919/https:/www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwtbK5XXAMk&amp;feature=youtu.be (archived) (showing the conspiracy Meadows asked DOJ to investigate).
               227.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 88-90.
               228.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 89.
               229.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 90-91.
               230.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 87, 91-92; Documents
                     on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                     States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000708
                     (December 31, 2020, email from Steven Engel to Richard Donoghue attaching U.S. v.
                     Penn OJ suit).
               231.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production),  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000708
                     - HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000709 (December 31, 2020, email from Steven
                     Engel to Richard Donoghue attaching U.S. v. Penn OJ suit re: one pager, with document
                     titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit in the Supreme Court);
                     Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 9192.
               232.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production),  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000709 (Document titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit
                  in the Supreme Court). 
               233.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production),  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000709
                     (Document titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit in the Supreme
                     Court).
               234.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000709 (Document titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit
                  in the Supreme Court). 
               235.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certificationevents-07262021-000709
                  (Document titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit in the Supreme
                  Court). 
               236.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certificationevents-07262021-000709
                  (Document titled Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit in the Supreme
                  Court). The memo cites United States v. Texas although it likely refers to the case filed by Texas and rejected by the Supreme
                  Court, Texas v. Pennsylvania. See Order Dismissing Bill of Complaint and Denying Certiorari,Texas v. Pennsylvania, 592 U.S. ___, (Dec. 11, 2020) (No. 155, Orig.), available at https://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/courtorders/121120zr_p860.pdf. 
               237.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Engel, (Jan. 13, 2022), p. 33. 
               238.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 87, 9192 (noting
                  the Departments limited authority relative to United States v. Pennsylvania); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th (summarizing the many times Department officials told the President about the limited
                  authority to take actions related to the election).
               239.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9697.
               240.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9697. 
               241.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9697.
               242.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 9697.
               243.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 106.
               244.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 106.
               245.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 107.
               246.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 107.
               247.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10708.
               248.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 108.
               249.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 108.
               250.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 108.
               251.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 108.
               252.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10809.
               253.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10809.
               254.  Hand Audit of All Presidential Election Votes in Antrim County Confirms Previously
                  Certified Results, Voting Machines Were Accurate, Michigan Secretary of State, (Dec.
                  17, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/resources/news/2020/12/17/hand-audit-of-all-presidential-election-votes-in-antrim-county-confirms-previously-certified-result.
               255.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 109.
               256.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 109.
               257.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 109.
               258.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10910.
               259.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 110.
               260.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 110.
               261.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10910.
               262.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 10911.
               263.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 7273. 
               264.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 7273. 
               265.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 114. 
               266.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11314.
               267.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 113.
               268.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 113.
               269.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11115. 
               270.  Rosen confirmed this during testimony before the Select Committee. ADAM KINZINGER:
                  So in that meeting did Mr. Clark say he would turn down the Presidents offer if you
                  reversed your position and signed the letter? JEFFREY A. ROSEN: Yes. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               271.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               272.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                  (January 2, 2021, email from Jeffrey Rosen to Richard Donoghue re: Two Urgent Action
                  Items).
               273.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at  https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               274.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11718; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               275.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11718; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               276.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11718; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               277.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 118.
               278.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007891_0001
                  - 076P-R000007891_0009 (January 3, 2021, White House Presidential Call Log). 
               279.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007891_0001
                  - 076P-R000007891_0009 (January 3, 2021, White House Presidential Call Log).
               280.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000007891_0001
                   076P-R000007891_0009 (January 3, 2021, White House Presidential Call Log).
               281.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               282.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               283.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 118; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               284.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               285.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               286.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th (And so it was unanimous; everyone was going to resign if Jeff Rosen was removed
                  from the seat, Donoghue explained). The only exception was John Demers, the Assistant
                  Attorney General for the National Security Division. Donohue encouraged Demers to
                  stay on because he didnt want to further jeopardize national security. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 11920.
               287.   Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000729
                     (January 3, 2021, Resignation Letter by Patrick Hovakimian). 
               288.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 12122; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               289.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 122. 
               290.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 127. It was definitely
                  a consensus. We were all on the same page except for Jeff Clark, Donoghue said. Id. The Oval Office meeting attendees include Jeffrey Rosen, Richard Donoghue, Pat Cipollone,
                  Pat Philbin, Eric Herschmann, Steve Engel, Jeff Clark and President Trump. See id., at 123.
               291.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 122. 
               292.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 124.
               293.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 124.
               294.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 12425.
               295.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               296.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               297.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               298.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               299.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               300.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               301.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               302.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 126.
               303.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 12627.
               304.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 126.
               305.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 126.
               306.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 126.
               307.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 133.
               308.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13132.
               309.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 132. 
               310.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 132.
               311.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 12931.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Byung Jin Pak, (May 19, 2022), pp. 1119. 
               313.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 129.
               314.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 129.
               315.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 129.
               316.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 129.
               317.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 129.
               318.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 12930. 
               319.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13435.
               320.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 130.
               321.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 130. 
               322.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13536.
               323.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13334.
               324.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13334.
               325.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 134.
               326.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 13437.
               327.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 66.
               328.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               329.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 89.
