            1
            THE BIG LIE
            Late on election night 2020, President Donald J. Trump addressed the nation from the
               East Room of the White House. When Trump spoke, at 2:21 a.m. on November 4th, the
               Presidents re-election was very much in doubt. Fox News, a conservative media outlet,
               had correctly called Arizona for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden. Every Republican
               presidential candidate since 1996 had won Arizona. If the President lost the State,
               and in the days ahead it became clear that he had, then his campaign was in trouble.
               But as the votes continued to be counted, President Trumps apparent early lead in
               other key StatesStates he needed to winsteadily shrank. Soon, he would not be in
               the lead at allhed be losing. 
            So, the President of the United States did something he had planned to do long before
               election day: he lied. 
            This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country,
               President Trump said. We were getting ready to win this election, the President
               continued. Frankly, we did win this election.  We did win this election. Trump claimed,
               without offering any evidence, that a major fraud was occurring in our nation.1 
            Neither of President Trumps claims were true. He had no basis for claiming victory
               or that fraud was taking place. Millions of votes still had not been counted. The
               States were simply tabulating the ballots cast by the American people. Trumps own
               campaign advisors told him to waitthat it was far too early to declare victory. 
            As the evening progressed, President Trump called in his campaign team to discuss
               the results.  Trump Campaign Manager William Stepien and other campaign experts advised
               him that the results of the election would not be known for some time, and that he
               could not truthfully declare victory.  Stepien was of the view that, because ballots
               were going to be counted for days, it was far too early to be making any proclamation
               [about having won the election]. Stepien told President Trump that his recommendation
               was to say, votes are still being counted. It's . . . too early to call the race.2 
            Jason Miller, another senior Trump Campaign advisor, told the Select Committee that
               he argued in conversations with Stepien and others that night against declaring victory
               at the time as well, because it was too early to say one way [or] the other who
               had won. Miller recalled recommending that we should not go and declare victory until
               we had a better sense of the numbers.3 
            According to testimony received by the Committee, the only advisor present who supported
               President Trumps inclination to declare victory was Rudy Giuliani, who, according to Miller, was definitely intoxicated that evening.4 
            President Trumps decision to declare victory falsely on election night and, unlawfully,
               to call for the vote counting to stop, was not a spontaneous decision.  It was premeditated.
               The Committee has assembled a range of evidence of President Trumps preplanning for
               a false declaration of victory.  This includes multiple written communications on
               October 31st and November 3, 2020, to the White House by Judicial Watch President
               Tom Fitton.5  This evidence demonstrates that Fitton was in direct contact with President Trump
               and understood that he would falsely declare victory on election night and call for
               vote counting to stop.  The evidence also includes an audio recording of President
               Trumps advisor Steve Bannon, who said this on October 31, 2020, to a group of his
               associates from China:
            And what Trumps going to do is just declare victory, right?  Hes gonna declare victory.
               But that doesnt mean hes the winner.  Hes just gonna say hes a winner  The Democrats,
               more of our people vote early that count.  Their vote in mail.  And so theyre gonna
               have a natural disadvantage, and Trumps going to take advantage of it.  Thats our
               strategy.  Hes gonna declare himself a winner.  So when you wake up Wednesday morning,
               its going to be a firestorm . . . Also, if Trump, if Trump is losing, by ten or eleven
               oclock at night, its going to be even crazier.  No, because hes gonna sit right
               there and say They stole it.  Im directing the Attorney General to shut down all
               ballot places in all 50 states.  Its going to be, no, hes not going out easy.  If
               Trumpif Bidens winning, Trump is going to do some crazy shit.6
            Also in advance of the election, Roger Stone, another outside advisor to President
               Trump, made this statement:
            I really do suspect it will still be up in the air.  When that happens, the key thing
               to do is to claim victory.  Possession is 9/10s of the law.  No, we won.  Fuck you,
               Sorry.  Over.  We won.  Youre wrong.  Fuck you.7
            In the days after the election, the Presidents own campaign team told him he had
               lost and there was no evidence of significant fraud. When his campaign staff wouldnt
               tell him what he wanted to hear, President Trump replaced them with what Attorney
               General William Barr described as a clown car of individuals willing to promote
               various conspiracy theories.8 
            But Donald Trump was no passive consumer of these lies. He actively propagated them.
               Time and again President Trump was informed that his election fraud claims were not
               true. He chose to spread them anyway. He did so even after they were legally tested
               and rejected in dozens of lawsuits. Not even the electoral colleges certification
               of former Vice President Bidens victory on December 14, 2020, stopped the President
               from lying. Throughout, the Big Lie remained central to President Trumps efforts
               to block the peaceful transfer of power on January 6, 2021. 
            1.1 The Big Lie Reflected Deliberate Exploitation of the Red Mirage
            President Trumps Big Lie on election night was based on simple differences in how
               Americans vote. In 2020, it was well-known that Democrats were much more likely to
               vote via mail-in ballots than in person in 2020. On the other hand, Republicans generally
               preferred to vote in person on election day.9 In key swing States with tight margins between the candidates, the election day votes
               would favor President Trump and disproportionately be counted first. Mail-in ballots,
               which would favor former Vice President Biden, would disproportionately be counted
               later. In some States it would take days to process the remaining mail-in ballots.
            The timing of how votes are counted created the potential for what is known as a Red
               Mirageor an illusion of a Republican (Red) victory in the early stages of vote counting.
               President Trump would appear to be in the lead on election night, but this was not
               the whole picture. Many mail-in votes for former Vice President Biden would not be
               counted on election day. Therefore, the actual winner would likely not be known on
               election night.   
            
                  Photo by House Creative Services
               
            
            The Red Mirage phenomenon was widely known prior to the 2020 presidential election.
               Chris Stirewalt was the head of the Fox News elections desk that correctly called
               Arizona for Biden. Stirewalt and his team tried to warn viewers of the Red Mirage.
               He testified that over the past 40 or 50 years, Americans have increasingly chosen
               to vote by mail or early or absentee, and that Democrats prefer that method of voting
               more than Republicans do.10 In nearly every election, Stirewalt elaborated, Republicans win Election Day and
               Democrats win the early vote, and then you wait and start counting. It [h]appens
               every time.11  
            President Trumps campaign team made sure the President was briefed on the timing
               of vote tallying. Stepien, his campaign manager, told the Select Committee that President
               Trump was reminded on election day that large numbers of mail-in ballots would still
               remain to be counted over the coming days.12  Stepien added that he personally reminded the President that while early returns
               may be favorable, the counting would continue: I recounted back to 2016 when I had
               a very similar conversation with him on election day . . . I recounted back to that
               conversation with him in which I said, just like I said in 2016 was going to be a
               long night, I told him in 2020 that, you know, it was going to be a process again,
               as, you know, the early returns are going to be positive.  Then were going to, you
               know, be watching the returns of ballots as, you know, they rolled in thereafter.13
            Ordinarily, the Red Mirage anomaly does not create problems in the election process
               because candidates wait for the votes to be tallied before declaring victory or conceding.
               As Stirewalt emphasized, prior to President Trump, no candidate had ever tried to
               avail themselves of this quirk in the election counting system.14 
            President Trump, however, made a different choice. In an extraordinary breach of the
               American democratic process, he decided to exploit the potential for confusion about
               the staggered timing of vote counting to deceive the American public about the election
               results. He and his allies foreshadowed this decision in their statements in the months
               leading up to the November 2020 election. 
            1.2 Trumps Pre-Election Plans to Declare Victory
            On Halloween, advisor Steve Bannon, who had served four years earlier as Donald Trumps
               2016 campaign manager, laid out the election night plan. What Trumps gonna do is just declare victory. Right? Hes gonna declare victory. But that doesnt mean hes a winner, Bannon told a private audience.
               Hes just gonna say hes a winner.15 
            
                   Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images
               
            
            Bannon explained that the Democrats [would] have a natural disadvantage on election night, because more Democrats would vote
               by mail than Republicans and it would take time to count the mail-in ballots. This
               would give President Trump the illusion of a lead. And Trumps going to take advantage
               of it, Bannon said. Thats our strategy. Hes gonna declare himself a winner.16 
            In an interview on Fox News the morning of the election, Bannon insisted that President
               Trump needed to address the nation that night, to provide the narrative engine for
               how we go forward.17 During an episode of his podcast later that same day, Bannon clarified what he meant:
               President Trump is going to claim victory. Right? Hes going to claim victory.18 
            Tom Fitton drafted a victory statement for the President to read on election night.19 On October 31st, he emailed the statement to President Trumps assistant, Molly Michael, and social media guru, Dan Scavino. Fitton wrote that election day, November 3rd, was the deadline by which voters in states across the country must choose a president. Fitton argued that counting ballots that arrived after election day would be part of an effort by partisans to overturn the election results.20 
            Of course, that claim wasnt truemail-in ballots are regularly processed after election day. Regardless, Fitton encouraged
               the President to pre-emptively declare victory. We had an election todayand I won, Fitton wrote for President Trump.21 Early in the evening on election day, Fitton emailed Michael again to say he had
               [j]ust talked to him [President Trump] about the draft [statement].22 Later that evening, before President Trump made his election night remarks, Michael replied that she was  . . redelivering to him [President Trump] now.23
            Roger Stone, President Trumps longtime political confidante, told several associates
               just prior to the election that Trump needed to declare victoryespecially if the race wasnt called on election day. Lets just hope we are celebrating
               on election night, Stone said. I really do suspect it will still be up in the air. When that happens, the key thing to do is claim victory.
               Stone elaborated with colorful language. Possession is nine-tenths of the law. No, we won. Fuck you. Sorry. Over. We won. Youre wrong. Fuck you.24 
            Indeed, published reports echoed these warnings about President Trumps election strategy.
               Two days before the election, Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that President Trump has told confidants he'll declare victory on Tuesday
               night if it looks like he's ahead.25 Swan added that Trump's team is preparing to falsely claim that mail-in ballots
               counted after Nov. 3a legitimate count expected to favor Democratsare evidence of
               election fraud.26 If the vote tally swung against Trump after election night in States such as Pennsylvania,
               then the Trump team would claim the Democrats had stolen the election.27 Fox News election analysis Chris Stirewalt testified that he and his team had gone to pains to inform viewers that early votes would favor Republicans but
               the lead would be illusory because the Trump campaign and the President had made it clear that they were going to try to
               exploit this anomaly.28 Others warned that President Trump could exploit the Red Mirage as well.29 
            1.3 Trumps Pre-Election Efforts to Delegitimize the Election Process
            President Trump also paved the way for his false election-night declaration of victory
               by blanketing voters with a blizzard of lies and statements delegitimizing mail-in
               voting in the middle of a deadly pandemic and consistently questioning the security
               of ballots. President Trump used the presidents bully pulpit, including his heavily-trafficked
               Twitter feed, to tell one lie after another.
            The Select Committee found dozens of instances in which President Trump claimed that
               mail-in voting would produce a rigged election. Trump repeatedly denounced mail-in
               voting on Twitter, during interviews, and even during the presidential debate.  Here
               is a small sample of President Trumps attempts to delegitimize mail-in balloting.
            On April 7, 2020, President Trump claimed:
            Mail ballots are a very dangerous thing for this country, because theyre cheaters.
               They go and collect them.  Theyre fraudulent in many cases. These mailed ballots
               come in.  The mailed ballots are corrupt, in my opinion.  And they collect them, and
               they get people to go in and sign them.  And then they  theyre forgeries in many
               cases.  Its a horrible thing.30
            The following day, April 8, President Trump tweeted:
            Republicans should fight very hard when it comes to statewide mail-in voting. Democrats
               are clamoring for it. Tremendous potential for voter fraud, and for whatever reason,
               doesnt work out well for Republicans. @foxandfriends31 
            On May 24, President Trump tweeted:
            The United States cannot have all Mail In Ballots. It will be the greatest Rigged
               Election in history. People grab them from mailboxes, print thousands of forgeries
               and force people to sign. Also, forge names. Some absentee OK, when necessary. Trying
               to use Covid for this Scam!32  
            On September 17, President Trump falsely alleged that mail-in ballots were ripe for
               foreign interference:
            @TrueTheVote There is a group of people (largely Radical Left Democrats) that want
               ELECTION MAYHEM. States must end this CRAZY mass sending of Ballots. Also, a GIFT
               to foreign interference into our election!!! Stop it now, before it is too late.33 
            Before the election, as President Trump campaigned against mail-in voting, Bill Stepien
               sought an intercession. Along with House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Stepien attempted
               to convince the President that mail-in voting was nota bad thing for his campaign.34 They argued that President Trumps decision to discourage mail-in voting, while urging
               [his] voters to vote only on election day leaves a lot to chance and would fail to
               take advantage of a superior grassroots operation that could encourage Trump voters
               to return their ballots.35 President Trump did not heed their warning. He continued to demonize mail-in voting.
               The Red Mirage was a key part of his Big Lie. 
            Ominously, President Trump consistently refused to commit to accepting the outcome
               of the election.  During an interview on Fox News in July, Chris Wallace asked: Can
               you give a direct answer [if] you will accept the election? President Trump responded:
               I have to see. Look, youI have to see. No, Im not going to just say yes. Im not
               going to say no, and I didnt last time either.36 
            On September 23, 2020, a reporter asked President Trump if he would commit to a peaceful
               transferal of power after the election. The President refused, saying, were going to have to see what happens.37 The President claimed, the ballots are disaster, adding that if he could get rid of the ballots . . . well have a very peacefulthere wont be a transfer, frankly; therell be a continuation.38 That is, according to President Trump, there would be a continuation of his presidency.
            The following day, September 24, another reporter followed up by asking if the election would be legitimate only if President Trump won. The President again suggested there was something suspect about mail-in ballots, adding that he was not sure the election could be an honest one.39 
            1.4 President Trumps Launch of the Big Lie
            Consistent with the pre-election narrative planted by President Trump, within hours
               of polls closing, President Trump began pushing the claim that late-reported vote
               tallies were illegitimate.40 Even though he had been reminded by his Campaign Manager that very day that a large
               number of mail-in ballots would not be counted for several hours or days,41 President Trump claimed that Democrats were going to find . . . ballots at four
               oclock in the morning and add them to the list.42 He also suggested that Democrats were continuing to vote after the polls had closed.43 
            Indeed, this is exactly what Steve Bannon described when he said President Trump would
               take advantage of the Democrats natural disadvantage on election night.44
            In the ensuing days and weeks, President Trump often referred to dumps of votes
               that were injected into the counting process.45 His supporters latched onto these false claims.46 There were no dumps of votesjust tallies of absentee ballots as they were reported
               by jurisdictions throughout the country in a fully transparent process.47 These batches of ballots included votes for both Trump and Biden. The late-reported
               votes favored the former Vice President, just as President Trumps campaign advisors
               said they would, particularly in primarily Democratic cities.48 
            Attorney General Bill Barr recognized immediately that the Red Mirage was the basis
               for President Trumps erroneous claim of fraud.  [R]ight out of the box on election night, the President claimed that there was major fraud
               underway, Barr said. I mean, this happened, as far as I could tell, before there was actually any potential of looking at evidence.49  President Trumps claim seemed to be based on the dynamic that, at the end of the evening, a lot of Democratic votes came in which changed the vote counts in certain states, and that seemed to be the basis for this broad claim that there was major fraud.50 
            President Trump knew about the Red Mirage. He chose to lie about it repeatedlyeven
               after being directly informed that his claims were false. This was often the case
               in the post-election period. The President consciously disregarded facts that did
               not support his Big Lie. 
            1.5 Post-Election: President Trump Replaces His Campaign Team 
            President Trumps campaign leadership, including Bill Stepien (the campaigns manager)
               and Justin Clark (the campaigns deputy manager), supported President Trump, and were
               willing to pursue recounts and other standard post-election litigation, but they were
               not willing to promote baseless conspiracy theories.51  Stepien and others characterized this group as Team Normal.52 
            Less than two weeks after the election, President Trump pushed Team Normal aside
               because its members didnt tell him what he wanted to hear. In their place, Trump
               promoted Rudy Giuliani and his associates, men and women who spread baseless and extreme
               claims of election fraud. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, recruited several
               investigators and lawyers to assist him.53 Giulianis team included Jenna Ellis, Bernard Kerik, Boris Epshteyn, Katherine Friess,
               and Christina Bobb.54 Ellis functioned as Giulianis deputy on the new Trump Campaign legal team.55 Kerik, the former commissioner of the New York Police Department and a pardoned felon,
               served as Giulianis chief investigator.56 Other attorneys who collaborated with Giulianis legal team included Sidney Powell,
               Cleta Mitchell, and John Eastman. As discussed elsewhere in this report, Eastman became
               a key player in President Trumps efforts to overturn the election. 
            1.6 President Trumps Campaign Team Told Him He Lost the Election and There Was No Significant
               Fraud
            President Trumps campaign team quickly realized that none of the significant fraud
               claims were real. Bill Stepien testified that, as of November 5th, the Trump Campaign
               had not found any proof of fraudulent activity. There were allegations and reports,
               but nothing hard [and] fast that drew the results of the election into question.57 
            The Campaign continued to investigate claims of fraud into the second week after the
               election. According to Stepien, as people shared wild allegations with the President,
               the campaign team was forced to review the facts and then serve as a truth telling
               squad to the President regarding why the claims didnt prove to be true.58  For example, Stepien recalled someone alleging that thousands of illegal votes had
               been cast in Arizona. That wasnt true. The votes had been submitted by overseas voters
               (such as military deployed or stationed abroad) who were obviously eligible to participate
               in the election.59 
            Alex Cannon was a lawyer for the Trump Campaign and previously worked for the Trump
               Organization. After the election, Cannon was tasked with looking into allegations
               of voter fraud in the 2020 electionincluding the claim that thousands of ineligible
               votes had been cast in Arizona.60 Cannon recalled that Vice President Pence asked him what he was finding. And I said
               that I didn't believe we were finding it, or I was not personally finding anything
               sufficient to alter the results of the election, Cannon responded. Vice President
               Pence thanked him.61
            Cannon reported his assessment to Mark Meadows, the White House Chief of Staff, as
               well. In mid to late-November 2020, Meadows asked Cannon what his investigation had
               turned up. And I remember sharing with him that we weren't finding anything that
               would be sufficient to change the results in any of the key states, Cannon told Meadows.
               So there is no there, there? Meadows replied.62
            Jason Miller, a senior advisor to the Trump Campaign, pushed claims of election fraud
               in public. In private, however, Miller says that he told President Trump a different
               story, informing him numerous times that there was not enough election fraud to have
               changed the election: 
            Miller:  My understanding is that I think there are still very valid questions and
               concerns with the rules that were changed under the guise of COVID, but, specific
               to election day fraud and irregularities, there were not enough to overturn the election.
            Committee Staff:  And did you give your opinion on that to the President?
            Miller:  Yes.
            Committee Staff:  What was his reaction when you told him that?
            Miller:  You haven't seen or heardIm paraphrasing, butyou haven't seen or heard
               all the different concerns and questions that have been raised.
            Committee Staff:  How many times did you have this conversation with the President?
            Miller:  Several. I couldn't put a specific number on it, though.
            Committee Staff:  But more than one?
            Miller:  Correct.63
            Matthew Morgan, the Trump Campaigns top lawyer, came to a similar conclusion. Nearly
               two months after the election, on January 2nd, Morgan met with the Vice Presidents
               staff. According to Morgan, the consensus in the room was that even if all the claims
               of fraud and irregularities were aggregated and read most favorably to the campaign
               . . . it was not sufficient to be outcome determinative.64 
            As far as the Trump Campaigns professional leadership was concerned, there was no
               evidence that the election had been stolen from President Trump. To the contrary,
               they had seen ample evidence that President Trump simply lostand told the President
               so.  
            On November 6th, Jared Kushner arranged for the senior campaign staff to brief President
               Trump in the Oval Office on the state of the race.65 Since election day, Matt Oczkowski, the Campaigns leading data expert, had tracked
               voting returns in the swing States to analyze the campaigns odds of success.66 Miller texted such updates on data from key States to Meadows.67 The Trump Campaigns data did not add up to victory. Oczkowski delivered to the
               President in pretty blunt terms that he was going to lose the election.68 There were not enough outstanding votes in the battleground States for President
               Trump to overcome Bidens lead. President Trump disagreed and insisted that he would
               still prevail through legal challenges.69 
             But the data did not lie. 
            
                  Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images
               
            
             On November 7th, the Associated Press called Pennsylvania and the overall presidential election for former Vice President
               Biden.70 At that point, a small team of the Presidents campaign advisors including Stepien
               met with the President and told him that his path to victory was virtually non-existent.71 The campaign team conveyed to the President that his chance of success was only 5,
               maybe 10 percent, which Stepien explained to the Committee was a very, very, very
               bleak assessment.72 
            In retrospect, the campaigns estimate of a 5 to 10 percent chance of winning, as
               of November 7th, was far too optimistic. In one of the most favorable possible scenarios, for example, President Trump and
               his team would need to win recounts in Arizona and Georgia, while also prevailing
               in litigation challenging absentee or vote by mail ballots in Wisconsin, or possibly
               Michigan or Pennsylvania.73 But the election wasnt even close enough to trigger automatic recounts in Arizona
               or Georgia.   
            The narrowest margin of total votes between the two candidates was in Arizona, where
               former Vice President Biden won by more than 10,000 votes. This may seem like a small
               number of votes, but it was more than enough to avoid an automatic recount. As Benjamin
               Ginsberg, a longtime Republican elections lawyer, explained to the Select Committee,
               the 2020 election was not close.74 Previous campaigns had successfully challenged vote differentials in the hundredsnot
               thousandsof votes.75 Ginsberg explained, you just don't make up those sorts of numbers in recounts.76 Georgia performed a hand recount of all the ballots anyway, confirming within weeks
               of the election that Biden had won the State.77 Also, by January 6th, Arizona and New Mexico had conducted statutory post-election
               audits of voting machines or randomly-selected, representative samples of ballots
               at the State- or county-level that affirmed the accuracy of their election results.78
            Chris Stirewalt, who led the elections desk at Fox News at the time, concurred with
               Ginsbergs analysis. Asked what President Trumps odds of victory were as of November
               7th, Stirewalt replied: None.79 
            Meanwhile, the Trump Campaign continued to crunch the numbers. On the morning of November
               12th, Oczkowski circulated among top campaign advisors a presentation describing what
               happened in each of the battleground States the campaign was monitoring.80 This analysis by the data team examined the turnout and margins on a county-by-county
               basis in a dozen States while also analyzing demographic changes that impacted the
               results.81 Among the States were Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Nevada, and Wisconsin.82 Oczkowskis team determined that President Trump lost each of those six States because
               Biden had performed better than President Trump in certain areas like population centers
               or suburbs.83 Yet, in the weeks that followed, President Trump and his new legal teamthe clown
               carwent to great lengths to challenge the results of the election in these six states,
               spreading multiple conspiracy theories. 
            The voting data told a clear story: President Trump lost. But, regardless of the facts,
               the President had no intention of conceding defeat.  
            On election night, President Trump and Rudy Giuliani agreed that the President should
               just declare victoryeven though he had no basis for doing so. Giuliani also told
               the Select Committee that President Trump asked him on November 4th to take over his
               campaigns legal operation.84 Giuliani thought the only way that it would work would be for the President to call
               the existing campaign team to announce Giulianis takeover because, in Giulianis
               words, they are going to be extraordinarily resentful, because they dont like me
               already, and I dont trust them.85 He said that the President agreed.86 
            Although Giuliani wouldnt assume leadership of the Campaigns legal operations until
               mid-November, the former New York City mayor quickly began to butt heads with Team
               Normal.
            On November 6th, Giuliani and his team met with the Trump Campaigns leadership at
               its headquarters in Arlington, Virginia.87 
            Team Normal was not impressed. Stepien told the Select Committee the campaign team was concerned that Giuliani would be a distraction to them and to President Trump.88  When Giuliani suggested traveling to Pennsylvania to assist in the campaigns efforts, the campaign team didnt dissuade him from doing so.89  After just 10 to 15 minutes in the conference room, Stepien and other staffers left the meeting.90 
            That same day, President Trump discussed the Campaigns legal strategy in the Oval
               Office with Giuliani, Clark, and Matt Morgan, the Trump Campaigns General Counsel.91 Prior to the election, Morgan was responsible for the Campaigns litigation strategy.92 Morgan and his team filed lawsuits challenging the changes States made to voting
               practices during the coronavirus pandemic.93 Morgan also studied previous elections to determine the types of cases that were
               likely to succeed.94 Clark described how the Campaigns original legal strategy was based on his general
               theory for election cases: to look at what do you think, what do you know, and what
               can you prove and then determine which cases to file from there.95 
            Giuliani had other ideas and advocated to President Trump that he be put in charge
               of the Campaigns legal operation so that he could pursue his preferred strategy.96 Mr. Giuliani didnt seem bound by those cases or by those precedents. He felt he
               could press forward on anything that he thought was wrong with the election and bring
               a strategy around that, Morgan explained.97 Rudy was just chasing ghosts, Clark said.98 Morgan and Clark excused themselves from the meeting because it was going nowhere.99
            
                  Photo by Chris McGrath/Getty Images
               
            
            The next day, November 7th, Giuliani held a press conference at Four Seasons Total
               Landscaping in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He immediately began making outlandish
               claims, arguing that the Democrats had conspired to steal the election. As you know
               from the very beginning, mail-in ballots were a source of some degree of skepticism,
               if not a lot of skepticism, as being innately prone to fraud, Giuliani said. Those
               mail-in ballots could have been written the day before by the Democratic Party hacks
               that were all over the Convention Center.100 Giuliani offered no evidence to support his shocking and baseless allegation. Echoes
               of President Trumps relentless campaign against mail-in balloting, and his decision
               to exploit the Red Mirage, were easy to hear.
            On November 10th, Giuliani and Kerik met with President Trump in the Oval Office to
               discuss their investigation into voter fraud. White House Counsel Pat Cipollone and
               White House Senior Advisor Eric Herschmann were also in attendance. After Giulianis
               presentation, President Trump asked Cipollone whether he had spoken to Attorney General
               Barr about the allegations of fraud.101 One day before, Barr had issued a memorandum outlining a shift in DOJ policy that
               allowed Federal prosecutors to investigate claims of voting irregularities without
               waiting for the results to be certified.102 President Trumps question was an early indication that he was going to pressure
               the DOJ to endorse his phony fraud claims.
            Days later, Giuliani and Justin Clark engaged in a screaming match during a meeting
               in the Oval Office.103  Giuliani was urging President Trump to file a lawsuit in Georgia, but Clark pointed
               out that a hand recount was already being conducted and argued it was better to wait.104 Giuliani told President Trump that Clark was lying to him.105 A formal changing of the guard would follow.
            On November 14th, President Trump announced on Twitter that Giuliani was now the head
               of his campaigns legal team.106 Team Normal saw drastic changes to their roles on the newly-structured campaign
               teamsome self-imposedand many outside law firms that had signed up to support the
               campaigns legal efforts disengaged completely.107 
            I didnt think what was happening was necessarily honest or professional at that
               point in time, Stepien explained. This wasnt a fight that I was comfortable with,
               he added.108
            On the day the leadership change was announced, Giuliani participated in a surrogate
               briefing to coordinate messaging by Trump loyalists during their media appearances.109 Giuliani announced that the messaging strategy should be to go hard on Dominion/Smartmatic,
               bringing up Chavez and Maduro.110 Giuliani claimed that additional lawsuits would soon be filed to invalidate upwards
               of 1M ballots.111
            Consistent with the messaging advanced by the new campaign team, President Trump in
               mid-November remained dug-in, still refusing to concede defeat.  President Trump continued
               to insist that he was cheated out of victory, endorsing one wild conspiracy theory
               after another to deny the simple fact that he lost.  
            1.7 President Trump Had His Day in Court
            Weve proven the election was stolen, but no judge, including the Supreme Court
               of the United States, has had the courage to allow it to be heard.112  That was how President Trump described efforts to overturn the election in court
               one day before the electoral college met on December 14, 2020. That was false.
            
            Judges across the nation did evaluate President Trumps claims that the election was stolen. As longtime Republican
               election attorney Benjamin Ginsberg testified before the Select Committee, the Presidents
               camp did have their day in court, its just that in no instance did a court find
               that the charges of fraud were real.113  In total, the Trump Campaign and allies of President Trump filed 62 separate lawsuits
               between November 4, 2020, and January 6, 2021, calling into question or seeking to
               overturn the election results.114 Out of 62 cases, only one case resulted in a victory for the President Trump or his
               allies, which affected relatively few votes, did not vindicate any underlying claims
               of fraud, and would not have changed the outcome in Pennsylvania.115 Thirty of the cases were dismissed by a judge after a hearing on the merits.116  
            In every State in which claims were brought, one or more judges specifically explained
               as part of their dismissal orders that they had evaluated the plaintiffs allegations
               or supposed proof of widespread election fraud or other irregularities, and found
               the claims to be entirely unconvincing.  In Arizona, for example, the plaintiffs in
               Bowyer v. Ducey alleged that the election was tainted by the introduction of hundreds of thousands
               of illegal, ineligible, duplicate or purely fictitious ballots.117  A Federal judge dismissed their suit, finding it void of plausible allegations
               and sorely wanting of relevant or reliable evidence.118  Likewise, in Ward v. Jackson, an Arizona State-court judge dismissed a lawsuit by the State GOP chair following
               a two-day trial, finding no evidence of misconduct, fraud, or illegal votes.119  This ruling was unanimously upheld by the State supreme court, where all seven justices
               were appointed by GOP governors.120
            In Georgia, a State court dismissed Boland v. Raffensperger, which alleged that tens of thousands of illegal ballots were cast by out-of-State
               voters or with invalid signature matches.121  The judge found that the Complaints factual allegations . . . rest on speculation
               rather than duly pled facts and do not support . . . a conclusion that sufficient
               illegal votes were cast to change or place in doubt the result of the election.122  The judge who issued this decision had been appointed by a Republican governor,
               as had seven of the eight justices of the State supreme court who upheld her ruling.123  Likewise, a Federal judge denied relief to the plaintiff in Wood v. Raffensperger, which alleged that new procedures for checking absentee ballot signatures spoiled
               the result by making it harder to reject illegal ballots, finding no basis in fact
               or law to grant him the relief he seeks.124  The judge wrote that [t]his argument is belied by the record because absentee
               ballots were actually rejected for signature issues at the same rate as in 2018.125
            In Michigan, a Federal judge found in King v. Whitmer that the plaintiffs claims of massive election fraud were based on nothing but
               speculation and conjecture that votes for President Trump were destroyed, discarded
               or switched to votes for Vice President Biden. . . .126  Similarly, a State-court judge rejected plaintiffs claims in two cases brought
               against Detroit and the surrounding county that accused them of systematic fraud in
               how absentee ballots were counted; the judge found that one group of plaintiffs .
               . . offered no evidence to support their assertions,127 and that the other groups interpretation of events is incorrect and decidedly
               contradicted by highly-respected election experts.128
            In Nevada, a State-court judge rejected a litany of claims of systematic election
               fraud in Law v. Whitmer, ruling that plaintiffs did not prove under any standard of proof that illegal votes
               were cast and counted, or legal votes were not counted at all, due to voter fraud
               or for any other improper or illegal reason.129  The ruling was unanimously upheld by the Nevada Supreme Court.130
            In Pennsylvania, a Federal judge dismissed Donald Trump for President v. Boockvar, finding that the Trump Campaign had presented nothing but strained legal arguments
               without merit and speculative accusations unpled in the operative complaint and unsupported
               by evidence.131  The dismissal was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
               which held: [C]alling an election unfair does not make it so. Charges require specific
               allegations and then proof.  We have neither here.132  That opinion was authored by another Trump appointee.133
            Lastly, in Wisconsin, another judge dismissed a lawsuit accusing the Wisconsin Elections
               Commission of constitutional violations that likely tainted more than 50,000 ballots.134  The judge ruled: This Court has allowed plaintiff the chance to make his case and
               he has lost on the merits, failing to show that the outcome was affected by Commission
               rules about drop boxes, ballot addresses, or individuals who claimed indefinitely
               confined status to vote from home.135  The ruling was upheld by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals
               for the Seventh Circuit, all of whom were Republican appointees, including one appointed
               by President Trump himself.136  
            In all, the judges who heard these post-election cases included 22 Federal judges
               appointed by Republican presidents.137
            President Trump and his lawyers were well-aware that courts were consistently rejecting
               his claims. During a December 18th meeting in the Oval Office with President Trump,
               Sidney Powell and others, White House Senior Advisor Eric Herschmann pointed out that
               President Trumps lawyers had their opportunity to prove their case in court, and
               failed. Powell fired back that the judges are corrupt. Herschmann responded: Every
               one?  Every single case that youve done in the country you guys lost, every one of
               them is corrupt, even the ones we appointed?138  
            President Trump was faced with another choice after having his day in court. He could
               accept that there was no real evidence of voter fraud, or he could continue to amplify
               conspiracy theories and lies. He chose the latter.
            1.8 President Trump Repeatedly Promoted Conspiracy Theories  
            Instead of accepting his defeat, President Trump attempted to justify his Big Lie
               with a series of increasingly preposterous claims. The President was not simply led
               astray by those around him. The opposite was true. He actively promoted conspiracy
               theories and false election fraud claims even after being informed they were baseless.
               Millions of President Trumps supporters believed the election was stolen from him.
               Many of them still do, but President Trump knew the truth and chose to lie about it.
            The power of the Presidents bully pulpit should not be underestimated, especially
               in the digital age.139 President Trumps relentless lying sowed seeds of distrust in Americas election
               system. Researchers who studied this election-denial phenomenon have noted: President
               Trump didnt just prime his audience to be receptive to false narratives of election
               fraudhe inspired them to produce those narratives and then echoed those false claims
               back to them.140 Social media played a prominent role in amplifying erroneous claims of election fraud.
               Shortly after election day, the Stop the Steal campaign, discussed more fully in
               Chapter 6, went viral. Stop the Steal influencers echoed President Trumps premature
               declaration of victory, asserting that he won the election, the Democrats stole it
               from him, and it was the responsibility of American patriots to combat this supposed
               injustice.141
            
                  Photo by Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images
               
            
            This resulted in what Attorney General Barr has described as an avalanche of false
               claims, as President Trumps supporters attempted to justify his Big Lie.142  The post-election allegations of fraud or other malfeasance were completely bogus,
               silly and usually based on complete misinformation, Barr explained.143 Nonetheless, many of President Trumps supporters wanted to believe them. The stolen
               election narrative has proven to be remarkably durable precisely because it is a matter
               of beliefnot evidence, or reason. Each time a claim was debunked, more claims emerged
               in its place. Barr later complained that this dynamic forced him and others to play
               whack-a-mole.144
             The United States Department of Justice, under Barrs leadership and then Acting
               Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen, was forced to knock down one lie after another. As
               discussed in Chapter 4, Barr took unprecedented steps to investigate the avalanche
               of lies.  Claims of election fraud were referred to United States Attorneys offices
               and the FBI for investigation. Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue tracked dozens
               of investigations. None of them were found to have merit.145 The top officials in President Trumps Justice Department personally told the President
               that the claims he was promoting were false. But that did not matter to the President.
               As Barr told the Select Committee, President Trump never showed any indication of interest in what the actual facts were.146 
            For example, on December 27th, Rosen and Donoghue spent approximately two hours on
               the phone with President Trump. They debunked a litany of claims regarding the election,
               explaining that each had been investigated and found to be baseless.147 According to Donoghue, President Trump had this arsenal of allegations that he wanted
               to rely on. Donoghue thought it was necessary to explain to the President based
               on actual investigations, actual witness interviews, actual reviews of documents,
               that these allegations simply had no merit. Donoghue wanted to cut through the noise
               and be very blunt with the President, making it clear these allegations were simply
               not true.148 
            During their December 27th conversation with President Trump, Rosen and Donoghue rebutted
               false claims regarding: suitcases of ballots in Georgia, Dominions voting machines
               in Antrim County, a truckload of ballots in Pennsylvania, ballots being scanned multiple
               times, people voting more than once, dead people voting, Native Americans being paid
               to vote, and more votes than voters in particular jurisdictions.149 As the officials debunked each claim, President Trump would just roll on to another
               one.150  Donoghue told President Trump that Federal law enforcement officials had conducted
               dozens of investigations and hundreds of interviews, and they had concluded that the
               major allegations were not supported by the evidence developed.151 Donoghue and Rosen told President Trump flat out that much of the information
               he [was] getting [was] false and/or just not supported by the evidence.152 President Trump responded: You guys may not be following the internet the way I
               do.153 
            The Department of Justice was not alone in trying to contain the Presidents conspiracy-mongering.
               President Trumps lies were often debunked in real-time by State authorities, judges,
               experts, journalists, Federal officials, and even members of his own legal team. As
               discussed above, the Presidents campaign team found that there was no significant
               fraud in the election. So, the President pushed them aside. The courts rejected nearly
               every claim brought by the Presidents legal team. Even though courts rejected the
               claims as speculative, unsupported and meritless, President Trump, Rudy Giuliani,
               and others continued to assert them as truth to Trumps followers in speeches, tweets,
               and podcasts.154  
            The burden of refuting the false claims made by President Trump and his surrogates
               often fell on State and local officials. For example, in Michigan, the Secretary of
               States office posted thorough and prompt responses to the claims of election fraud
               on a Fact Check page on its website.155 In Georgia, the Secretary of States office issued news releases and held frequent
               press conferences in the weeks following the election to respond to claims of fraud.156 County clerks in the contested States also spoke out publicly to refute allegations.
               Even as the President undermined the publics confidence in how votes are cast and
               counted, these clerks assured voters that their elections were secure and they could
               have confidence in the results.157 Outside experts also publicly denounced and dismantled the claims being raised and
               amplified by President Trump. This was done in the context of litigation, congressional
               hearings, and press releases.158 President Trump simply ignored these authoritative sources and continued to promote
               false claims that had been soundly discredited.
            Below, the Select Committee presents two case studies demonstrating how President
               Trump and his surrogates lied in the face of overwhelming evidence. The first case
               study deals with Dominion Voting Systems. President Trump repeatedly claimed that
               Dominions software switched votes and rigged the election well after the leaders
               of campaign and  Justice Department officials told him that these claims were baseless.
               The Presidents smear of Dominion was central to his Big Lie. 
            The second case study examines video footage recorded in Fulton County on election
               night. President Trump and his representatives concocted a fictional narrative based
               on a deceptively edited version of the footage. After these two case studies, the
               Select Committee examines a variety of other claims the President repeatedly made.
               Once again, these claims had no basis in truth. 
            Dominion Voting Systems
            Between election day and January 6th, President Trump repeatedly spread conspiracy
               theories about Dominion voting machines. The President tweeted or retweeted false
               claims about Dominion more than 30 times.159 He also repeatedly lied about the companys software during his post-election speeches
               and interviews.160 President Trumps own campaign staff, administration officials, and State officials,
               all told him the claims had no merit. Hand recounts confirmed the fidelity of the
               machines. But none of this overwhelming evidence mattered. President Trump demonstrated
               a conscious disregard for the facts and continued to maliciously smear Dominion. 
            President Trumps allies began spreading false claims regarding Dominion within days
               of the election. On November 8th, the day after networks called the election for Joe
               Biden, Sidney Powell claimed on Fox News that Dominion machines were flipping votes
               in the computer system or adding votes that did not exist.161 On November 12th, Rudy Giuliani appeared on Fox News to claim that Dominion was connected
               to Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chavez and its software was created in order to fix elections.162 The same day, President Trump retweeted a REPORT claiming that Dominion had DELETED
               2.7 MILLION TRUMP VOTES NATIONWIDE and switched hundreds of thousands of votes in
               key swing states.163 
            By that time, the Trump Campaign team had looked into allegations regarding Dominion
               and its software and concluded that the claims were false. An internal campaign memo,
               dated November 12, said that Dominions software did not lead to improper vote counts
               and cited reports concluding that, among other things, Dominion machines Did Not
               Affect The Final Vote Count.164 The memo also addressed various claims of foreign influence regarding Dominion.165 Jason Miller told the Select Committee that by November 12th he had told President
               Trump the results of the analysis of the Dominion claims by the campaigns internal
               research team, specifically telling him that the international allegations for Dominion
               were not valid.166  Emails and text messages show that this same analysis was shared with Mark Meadows,
               President Trumps chief of staff.167 White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told the Select Committee that she found
               herself waving [President Trump] off of the Dominion theory, encouraging him to
               use more fact-driven arguments.168 But it was to no avail. 
            Even though members of the Trump Campaign team reported that the result of the election
               was not compromised by any problems with Dominion machines, the President continued
               to assail Dominion on Twitter in the days that followed, for example retweeting a
               false claim that Dominions machines were engineered by China, Venezuela, [and] Cuba
               and claiming that Dominion had [r]igged the election.169
            Officials in the Trump administration also worked to debunk the false rumors about
               vote manipulation. The United States Department of Homeland Securitys Cybersecurity
               &amp; Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) released a joint statement of election security
               officials on November 12, reassuring voters that the election was the most secure
               in American history. CISA emphasized: There is no evidence that any voting system
               deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.170 
            This was another decision point for the President. He could choose to endorse the
               findings of his administrations own cyber security experts, or he could continue
               to promote baseless fictions about Dominion. President Trump chose the lies. The President
               and his supporters never did produce any evidence showing that Dominions machines
               affected the results of the election. But President Trump was undeterred by the facts.
               Indeed, the President and his supporters seized upon a simple human error in a small
               Michigan county as their initial pretense for these allegations as well as to keep
               the Dominion conspiracy theory alive. 
            During the early-morning hours of November 4th, Sheryl Guy, a clerk in Antrim County,
               Michigan, reported the unofficial results of the vote count.171 Guys online report was odd. It showed that former Vice President Biden had somehow
               won Antrim, a county that is majority-Republican and President Trump was expected
               to easily win. Trumps supporters quickly pointed to Bidens improbable win as evidence
               that Dominion had tampered with the votes.172 That wasnt true. Guy had made a mistake in updating the election counting software
               after a late addition of a local candidate to the ballot in some of the countys precincts,
               which caused her unofficial counts to be off when she tallied the votes reported by
               the various precincts.173 Guy, a Republican, was informed of the odd result and began to investigate immediately.
               The result was corrected, and President Trump won Antrim just as was expected.174 
            Within days, local and State officials in Michigan explained to the public what had
               happened. On November 7th, the Michigan Secretary of States office issued a detailed
               description of Guys error and assured the public that the official results were not impacted.175 The Michigan Senates Committee on Oversight, led by Republican Senator Ed McBroom,
               conducted its own comprehensive review of the claims related to Antrim County and
               confirmed that the initial reporting error was entirely attributable to an honest
               mistake by the county clerk.176 
            The mix-up in Antrim County was quickly corrected. A human errednot the voting machines.
               But President Trump used it as a pretext to continue lying about Dominion. 
            On November 12th, the same day CISA released its statement on election security, President
               Trump asked Tim Walberg, a Republican Congressman from Michigan, to check with key
               leadership in Michigans Legislature as to how supportive they could be in regards
               to pushing back on election irregularities and potential fraud.177 That night, President Trump asked his Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, Chad
               Wolf, to look into allegations of election irregularities in Michigan.178 The next day, President Trumps assistant sent Wolf a letter from Michigan State
               legislators raising claims about the election, including an incorrect claim that flawed
               Dominion software had caused votes to be counted for the wrong candidate.179 
            Administration officials quickly knocked down the Dominion claim. Wolf forwarded the
               allegations to the leadership of CISA, including CISA Director Christopher Krebs.180 Krebs provided Wolf with a press release from the Michigan Secretary of State that
               debunked the false claim about Antrim County and Dominions software in detail.181 Wolf shared an update about the information he received from Krebs with White House
               Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.182 
            On November 17th, Krebs tweeted out a statement issued by the nations leading election
               scientists that dismissed claims that election systems had been manipulated as either
               unsubstantiated or technically incoherent.183  President Trump fired Krebs that same day.184 President Trump claimed the statement released by Krebs was highly inaccurate, in
               that there were massive improprieties and fraud.185 The President had no evidence for his claim. 
            On November 19th, Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell, and Jenna Ellis held a press conference
               at the Republican National Committee (RNC) headquarters in Washington, DC. Powell
               asserted that there was massive influence of communist money through Venezuela, Cuba,
               and likely China in the interference with our elections here in the United States.186 She pointed a finger at Dominion, claiming its software was created in Venezuela
               at the direction of Hugo Chavez to make sure he never lost an election, and Giuliani
               echoed her claims.187
            Hope Hicks told the Select Committee how that press conference was received in the
               White House. The day after the press conference, President Trump spoke by phone with
               Sidney Powell from the Oval Office. During the call, Powell repeated the same claims
               of foreign interference in the election she had made at the press conference. While
               she was speaking, the President muted his speakerphone and laughed at Powell, telling
               the others in the room, This does sound crazy, doesnt it?188
            A few days later, the Trump Campaign issued a statement claiming Powell was not part
               of the Trump Campaigns legal team.189 But Powells outlandish claims were no different from those President Trump was making
               himself. On November 19th, the same day as Powells appearance at the RNC, President
               Trump tweeted and retweeted a link to a segment on One America News Network (OAN)
               that was captioned, Dominion-izing the Vote.190 The segment claimed that Dominion had switched votes from Trump to Biden. OAN featured
               a supposed cyber expert, Ron Watkins, a key figure in the QAnon conspiracy movement.191 On his own Twitter account, Watkins celebrated and thanked his supporters just minutes
               after President Trump tweeted the clip, and President Trump went on to share the clip
               again several times in the days that followed.192
            Officials inside the Trump administration continued to debunk the Dominion conspiracy
               theory, including during in-person meetings with President Trump. Attorney General
               Bill Barr met with President Trump face-to-face on three occasions after the election.193 Barr told the Select Committee, every time I was with the President, I raised the
               machines as sort of Exhibit A of how irresponsible this was.194  During the first of these meetings, on November 23rd, Barr explained to the President
               that the conspiracy theory about Dominions voting machines had zero basis, and
               was one of the most disturbing allegations. Barr stressed that this was crazy stuff
               and was poisoning Americans confidence in the voting system for no reason. This complete
               nonsense was doing [a] great, great disservice to the country, Barr said.195
            President Trump ignored Barrs grave concerns. On November 29th, President Trump was
               interviewed by Fox News Maria Bartiromo. It was the Presidents first interview since
               he lost his bid for reelection. He claimed the election was rigged and rife with
               theft and a total fraud.196 He repeated various conspiracy theories, leading with the claim that Dominions voting
               machines had glitches, which he alleged moved thousands of votes from my account
               to Bidens account.197 He claimed that there had been big, massive dumps of votesa reference to the Red
               Mirage.198 He rambled off various other, spurious allegations, including that dead people voted
               in significant numbers.199 None of it was true. 
            On December 1st, Attorney General Barr met again with President Trump and told him
               that the stuff his people were shoveling out to the public was bullshit.200 Attorney General Barr specifically told President Trump that the claims about Dominion
               voting machines were idiotic claims.201 President Trump was still not dissuaded from continuing the lie. The day after his
               meeting with the Attorney General, President Trump released a video in which he repeated
               several claims of election fraud, including a claim that votes had been wrongly switched
               from Trump to Biden using Dominion voting machines.202 
            By early-December, courts had assessed and rejected claims that Dominion machines
               were manipulated to affect the outcome of the 2020 election. In Michigan, a Federal
               judge found that claims, including those related to fraud due to the use of Dominion
               voting machines, were based on nothing but speculation and conjecture that votes
               were destroyed, discarded or switched. . . .203 In Arizona, a Federal judge dismissed claims that Dominion machines had deleted,
               switched, or changed votes.204 But President Trump and his supporters refused to accept denunciations of the fabricated
               Dominion claims.
            Through December, President Trump and his legal team tried to echo the Dominion conspiracy
               theory by claiming to have found evidence that votes were switched in Antrim County.
               The clerks unintentional error was fixed weeks earlier and there was no evidence
               showing that Dominion had altered the vote tally in Antrim, or anywhere else.205  But President Trumps legal team used a case challenging a local marijuana ordinance
               that had passed by one vote to gain access to Dominions voting machines. An Antrim
               County judge issued an order granting the plaintiffs experts access to the countys
               computer, Dominion voting machines, thumb drives and memory cards.206 Although the purpose of the order was to allow the plaintiff to seek evidence related
               to his ordinance challenge, it soon became clear that President Trumps legal team
               was behind the effort.207  
            An organization named Allied Security Operations Group (ASOG), led by Russell Ramsland,
               conducted an analysis of Antrim Countys voting machines and related systems. On December
               13th, ASOG released a report on its findings. The inspection yielded no evidence of
               vote manipulation. Still, the report included an unsubstantiated assertion that the
               Dominion voting machines used in Antrim County and throughout Michigan were purposefully
               designed with inherent error to create systemic fraud and influence election results
               and that a malicious algorithm was used to manipulate the results of the 2020 election.208 Documents obtained by the Select Committee show that President Trump and Vice President
               Mike Pence were briefed on ASOGs findings by Giulianis team.209 On December 14th, President Trump widely disseminated the ASOG report and accompanying
               talking points prepared by Giulianis team.210 He also trumpeted the report on Twitter, writing on December 14th: WOW. This report
               shows massive fraud. Election changing result!211 
            During a meeting with Attorney General Bill Barr that day, President Trump claimed
               the ASOG report was absolute proof that the Dominion machines were rigged and meant
               he was going to have a second term.212 Barr told the Select Committee that he believed the ASOG report was very amateurish,
               its authors lacked any real qualifications, and it failed to provide any supporting
               information for its sweeping conclusions about Dominion.213 Barr told President Trump he would look into the report, but that the DOJ already
               had a good idea of what happened in Antrim County and it was human error, not a problem
               with the machines.214 In any event, Barr promised President Trump they would have a definitive answer within
               a couple of days because a hand recount was being conducted.215
            In the ensuing days, as Barr predicted, the ASOG report was swiftly and soundly criticized
               by experts within and outside the Trump Administration, including the Department of
               Justice and the Department of Homeland Security.216 The initial analysis of election security experts at the Department of Homeland Security
               was that the ASOG report was false and misleading and demonstrates a callous misunderstanding
               of the actual current voting certification process.217 Subsequent analyses of the ASOG report and the underlying data from Antrim County
               were even more critical.218 These thorough assessments of the Antrim County data and the ASOG report demonstrate
               that virtually every one of the claims that President Trump and his surrogates made
               about the report was false.219 ASOGs inspection did not reveal any malicious software or algorithms or any other
               evidence that the voting machines had been compromised.220 
            Most importantly, as Attorney General Barr had promised President Trump, within days
               of the release of the ASOG report, a full hand recount of every ballot cast in Antrim
               County confirmed the results reported by the Dominion machines and refuted ASOGs
               assertion that an algorithm has manipulated the vote count.221 Giulianis chief investigator, Bernie Kerik, acknowledged that his team was not able
               to find any proof that a Dominion voting machine improperly switched, deleted, or
               injected votes during the 2020 election.222
            President Trump was not swayed by these basic facts. The President continued to promote
               the ASOG report, hounding DOJ to investigate the matter further. He returned to ASOGs
               claims during a December 27th call with Acting Attorney General Rosen and Acting Deputy
               Attorney General Donoghue, citing the reports claimed error rate of 68 percent in
               Antrim County. Donoghue pointed out to the President that the difference between the
               computer and hand count was only one vote and that he cannot and should not be relying
               on ASOGs fraudulent claim, because it was simply not true.223    
            President Trumps fixation on Dominions voting machines and the baseless theory that
               the machines had manipulated votes led to a concerted effort to gain access to voting
               machines in States where President Trump was claiming election fraud. On the evening
               of December 18th, Powell, Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn (ret.) and Patrick Byrne met with
               the President at the White House. Over several hours, they argued that President Trump
               had the authority, under a 2018 executive order, to seize voting machines. Several
               administration officials joined the meeting and forcefully rejected this extreme proposal.224 Multiple lawyers in the White House, including Eric Herschmann, Derek Lyons, and
               White House Counsel Pat Cipollone pushed back strongly against the idea of seizing
               voting machines. Cipollone told the Select Committee it was a horrible idea, which
               had no legal basis,225 and he emphasized that he had seen no evidence of massive fraud in the election.226  White House advisor Eric Herschmann similarly told the Select Committee that he never saw any evidence whatsoever to sustain the allegations against Dominion.227 National Security Adviser Robert OBrien phoned into the December 18th meeting and
               was asked if he had seen any evidence of election fraud in the voting machines or
               foreign interference in our voting machines. OBrien responded that his team had
               looked into that, and theres no evidence of it.228
            Around the same time, President Trump, Mark Meadows, and Rudy Giuliani were repeatedly
               asking the leadership of DHS whether the agency had authority to seize voting machines,
               and they were repeatedly told that DHS has no such unilateral authority.229 Giuliani and Powell were also engaged in efforts to access voting machines in multiple
               States with the assistance of sympathetic local election officials.230 Those efforts turned up no evidence of any vote manipulation by any Dominion machine,
               but President Trump continued to press this bogus claim.
            On January 2, 2021, President Trump had a lengthy phone call with Georgia Secretary
               of State Brad Raffensperger. The President repeatedly brought up Dominions voting
               machines, alleging that they were at the heart of a conspiracy against him.231  Raffensperger was incredulous. I dont believe that youre really questioning the
               Dominion machines, Raffensperger said.  Because we did a hand re-tally, a 100 percent
               re-tally of all the ballots, and compared them to what the machines said and came
               up with virtually the same result. Then we did the recount, and we got virtually the
               same result.232 In other words, the story in Georgia was the same as the story in Antrim County,
               Michigan: Officials performed a hand recount to put to rest any allegations that Dominions
               machines had manipulated the vote. But once again, President Trump consciously disregarded
               these basic facts and persisted with his lies. 
            During a January 4, 2021, speech in Dalton, Georgia, President Trump chose to ignore
               Secretary Raffenspergers straightforward observations. The President rhetorically
               attacked Dominion once again, claiming that a crime had been committed in this
               state and it was immeasurable.233 The President called for an immediate forensic audit of an appropriate sampling
               of Dominions voting machines and related equipment.234 His allegations were both false and nonsensical. Georgia had already performed a
               statewide hand recount of all ballots. 
            President Trump and his allies have never provided any evidence showing that Dominions
               voting software altered votes in the 2020 presidential election. In fact, some of
               the most vocal proponents of the Dominion claims harbored their own misgivings about
               the claims they were making in public. For example, Rudy Giuliani repeatedly claimed
               in public that Dominion voting machines stole the election, and that foreign countries
               had interfered in the election, but the evidence uncovered by the Select Committee
               reveals that he did not believe either of those things to be true. Giuliani testified
               that he did not believe that voting machines stole the election.235 He also acknowledged that he had seen no evidence that foreign countries had interfered
               in the election or manipulated votes.236
            This testimony is consistent with his lead investigator Bernie Keriks acknowledgment
               that he had not come across proof that voting machines were used to switch, delete,
               or inject votes improperly.237 Christina Bobb, an attorney who worked with Giuliani, similarly could not point to
               any evidence of wrongdoing by Dominion.238  Even Sidney Powell, perhaps the most committed proponent of the Dominion falsehoods,
               was unable to provide the Select Committee with any evidence or expert report that
               demonstrated that the 2020 election outcome in any State had been altered through
               manipulation of voting machines.239 And Powell defended herself in a defamation suit brought by Dominion by claiming
               that no reasonable person would conclude that her statements were truly statements
               of fact.240
            By January 6, 2021, President Trumps claims regarding Dominion had been debunked
               time and again. The President knew, or should have known, that he had no basis for
               alleging that Dominions voting machines had cost him the election. 
            The State Farm Arena Video
            President Trump also recklessly promoted allegations that video footage from a ballot
               counting center in Fulton County, Georgia, was proof of major election fraud. He was
               repeatedly informed that these allegations were false, but he pressed them anyway.
            On December 3rd, Rudy Giuliani presented State legislators with selectively edited
               footage of ballots being counted on Election Night at Fulton Countys State Farm Arena.241 Giuliani misrepresented the video as a smoking gun proving election fraud.242 The President repeatedly claimed that he would have won Georgia, if not for a supposed
               conspiracy that unfolded on election night. President Trump and some of his supporters
               alleged that political operatives faked a water main rupture to expel Republican poll
               watchers.243 These same operatives then supposedly took illegal ballots from suitcases hidden
               under tables and added those ballots to the official count multiple times over by
               scanning them more than once.244 Not one of these allegations was true. 
            In a speech on December 5th, President Trump made the false claim about the State
               Farm Arena and claimed that if you just take the crime of what those Democrat workers
               were doing . . . [t]hats 10 times more than I need to win this state.245 During a December 22nd speech, he played the same deceptive footage presented by
               Giuliani several weeks earlier.246 President Trump also repeatedly scapegoated one of these Fulton County election workers
               during his January 2nd phone call with Georgias Secretary of State, repeatedly referencing
               her by name and calling her a professional vote scammer and hustler. 247 It was a malicious smear.
            President Trump was directly notified at least four different times that the allegations he was making were false.  On December
               15th, then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen told him: It wasnt a suitcase.
               It was a bin.  Thats what they use when theyre counting ballots.  Its benign.248  Rosens deputy, Richard Donoghue, also debunked this claim, including on a phone
               call on December 27th and in a meeting in the Oval Office on December 31st: I told
               the President myself . . . several times, in several conversations, that these allegations
               about ballots being smuggled in in a suitcase and run through the machines several
               times, it was not true, that we had looked at it, we looked at the video, we interviewed
               the witnesses, and it was not true.249  
            Likewise, Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger told President Trump that
               his allegations about the video were false. During his January 2nd call with the President,
               Raffensperger explained that Giulianis team sliced and diced that video and took
               it out of context and that the events that transpired are nowhere near what was
               projected once one looks at more complete footage.250  Raffensperger also explained to the President that his team did an audit of that,
               and we proved conclusively that they were not scanned three times.251 Yet, when Raffensperger said he would send President Trump a link to the television
               segment, the President refused: I dont care about the link.  I dont need it.252 
            The actual evidence contradicted all of President Trumps claims about what the Fulton
               County video depicted.  For example, the chief investigator for Raffenspergers office
               explained in a December 6th court filing that there were no mystery ballots that
               were brought in from an unknown location and hidden under tables.253 As the investigator noted, the security footage showed there was nothing under the
               table when it was brought into the room. Hours later, with reporters and observers
               present, the video shows ballots that had already been opened but not counted placed
               in the boxes, sealed up, [and] stored under the table.254  This finding was affirmed by the FBI, DOJ, and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation,
               which interviewed witnesses and reviewed the full video footage and machine data from
               the site.255
            The ballots in question were not double counted. This was confirmed by a full hand
               recount in November, as well as a subsequent review by investigators.256  They found that although one of the workers was shown in the video scanning certain
               batches multiple times, this was for a valid reason: her scanner kept jamming. The
               investigators confirmed from scanner logs, as well as the footage, that she only hit
               the accept button once per batch.257 Investigators also found that staff likely did not tell the observers to leave, let
               alone forcefully eject them from the facility.258  
            Despite this conclusive evidence and testimony, President Trump continued to point
               to the Fulton County video as evidence of a grand conspiracy. On January 5th, for
               instance, President Trumps executive assistant emailed a document from POTUS to
               Senator Josh Hawley (R-MO), Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Representative Jim Jordan
               (R-OH) that cited Suitcase Gate among the worst fraud incidents in Georgia.259 
            During his January 6th speech, President Trump told the crowd that in Fulton County,
               Republican poll watchers were ejected, in some cases, physically from the room under
               the false pretense of a pipe burst. The President continued: 
            then election officials pull boxes, Democrats, and suitcases of ballots out from
               under a table.  You all saw it on television, totally fraudulent.  And illegally scanned
               them for nearly two hours, totally unsupervised.  Tens of thousands of votes.  This
               act coincided with a mysterious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for Joe Biden, almost
               none for Donald Trump.260 
            No part of President Trumps story was true. He had already been informed that it
               was false.
            In June 2021, when Giulianis law license was revoked by a New York State appellate
               court, the courts ruling cited his statements about supposed suitcases of ballots
               in Georgia as one of its reasons for doing so. If, as respondent claims, he reviewed
               the entire video, he could not have reasonably reached a conclusion that illegal votes
               were being counted, the courts ruling reads.261
            President Trump's conspiracy-mongering endangered innocent public servants around
               the country, including in Fulton County.  For example, during a December 10, 2020,
               appearance in Georgia, Giuliani falsely accused Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss, two Black
               public servants shown in the Fulton County video, of surreptitiously passing around
               USB ports as if theyre vials of heroin or cocaine.262  In fact, Moss had been given a ginger mint by her mother, Freeman.263 As described in Chapter 2, baseless accusations like these forever changed the lives
               of election workers like Freeman and Moss. All in service of President Trump's Big
               Lie.
            The Fake Ballot Myth
            The Trump Campaigns distortion of the State Farm Arena video is just one example
               of the fake ballots lie. President Trump frequently claimed that fake ballots
               for Biden were injected into the vote-counting process. To hear the President tell
               it, there were truckloads of ballots delivered in the middle of the night to vote-counting
               centers and millions more votes were cast than there were registered voters. Judges,
               Trump administration officials, State authorities, and independent election experts
               found each iteration of the fake ballot claim to be just that: fake. The Trump Campaign
               and its surrogates brought nine cases that raised some version of a fake ballots
               claim. Every one of those cases was promptly dismissed.264 For example, in Costantino v. City of Detroit, a Michigan court ruled that the plaintiffs claims regarding forged, backdated and
               double-counted votes in Detroit were incorrect and not credible and rife with speculation
               and guess-work about sinister motives.265 
            Many of the fake ballot claims were publicly raised and repeated by President Trump,
               but never included in any lawsuit. For example, a truck driver for the U.S. Postal
               Service claimed that he delivered hundreds of thousands of completed ballots from
               Bethpage, New York to Lancaster, Pennsylvania.266 President Trump repeated this allegation numerous times.267 The DOJ and FBI interviewed the relevant witnesses, including the truck driver, and
               reviewed the loading manifests. They determined that the allegation was not true.268  Both Attorney General Barr and his successor, Jeffrey Rosen, told President Trump
               this claim was false. But that didnt stop the President from repeating it. 
            Another alleged truckload of ballots was supposedly delivered to the Detroit counting
               center at 4:30 a.m. on election night. This truck allegedly carried 100,000 ballots
               in garbage cans, wastepaper bins, cardboard boxes, and shopping baskets.269 A widely circulated video purportedly showed an unmarked van dropping off ballots,
               which were then wheeled into the counting center on a wagon.270 In fact, the only ballot delivery in Detroit after midnight on election night was
               an official delivery of 16,000 ballots, stacked in 45 well-organized trays of approximately
               350 ballots each.271 The wagon depicted in the video contained camera equipment being pulled by a reporter.272 The claim of 100,000 fake ballots being smuggled into the counting center in the
               middle of the night is even more ridiculous in light of the fact that only 174,384
               absent voter ballots were recorded in the City of Detroit in the 2020 election.273 The addition of 100,000 fake ballots to approximately 74,000 legitimate ballots would
               certainly have been obvious to election officials.274 
            President Trump also repeatedly claimed that more votes were cast than there were
               registered voters in certain States, cities, or precincts. It was easy to fact-check
               these allegations and demonstrate they were false. 
            For example, in Pennsylvania, approximately nine million people were registered to
               vote and approximately 6.8 million votes were cast in the 2020 presidential election.275 Nevertheless, President Trump and his allies made numerous more votes than voters
               claims in Pennsylvania. Citing 2020 mail-in voting data tweeted by Pennsylvania State
               Senator Doug Mastriano, President Trump claimed that 1.1 million ballots had been
               created and counted improperly.276 In fact, there was no discrepancy in the actual numbersMastriano erroneously compared
               the 2.6 million mail-in ballots cast in the November general election to the 1.5 million ballots that were returned in the June primary election.277 
            President Trump also promoted a false claim by a different Pennsylvania legislator
               that Pennsylvania had 205,000 more votes than voters.278 This claim was based on a flawed comparison by State Representative Frank Ryan of
               the votes recorded by State election authorities as having been cast and those reflected
               in a separate State registry.279 In fact, the discrepancy was a result of some counties not yet uploading their official
               results to the registry.280 In late-December 2020, Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue told President Trump
               that this allegation was baseless.281  President Trump kept repeating it anyway.282  
            The President and his surrogates made similar false claims concerning excess votes
               in Michigan. Many of those claims originated with a grossly inaccurate affidavit submitted
               by Russell Ramsland, the person behind the very amateurish and false and misleading
               ASOG report regarding Dominion voting machines in Antrim County.283 Ramsland claimed in a similar affidavit filed in Federal court in Georgia that 3,276
               precincts in Michigan had turnout of between 84% and 350%, with 19 precincts reporting
               turnout in excess of 100%.284 Ramslands affidavit was widely ridiculed, in part, because he relied on data for
               dozens of precincts that are located in Minnesota, not Michigan.285 Even after he corrected his affidavit to remove the Minnesota townships, his Michigan
               data remained wildly off-base.286 
            The Multiple Counting of Ballots Fiction 
            The President and his surrogates repeatedly claimed that ballots for former Vice President
               Biden were counted multiple times.287 These claims originated when some noticed election officials re-running stacks of
               ballots through counting machines. But the allegation is based on a fundamental misunderstanding
               of the vote-counting processit is routine and appropriate for election officials
               to re-scan ballots if they are not properly scanned and tabulated in the initial effort.
               In Costantino v. City of Detroit, the court rejected the incorrect and not credible affidavits speculating that
               ballots were run through scanners and counted multiple times in favor of the more
               accurate and persuasive explanation of activity put forward by the highly-respected
               election official with 40 years of experience.288 
            As with other misguided claims of election fraud, the claim that ballots were counted
               multiple times disregards the safeguards in the voting process. In particular, as
               noted above, it would certainly have been apparent in the canvassing process if hundreds
               of ballots were counted multiple times in Detroit because the total number of ballots
               would greatly exceed the number of voters who voted. But that was not the case. 
            The Imaginary Dead and Ineligible Voters
            In addition to their false claims regarding fake ballots, President Trump and his
               surrogates also relentlessly asserted that tens of thousands of ballots were cast
               by dead or otherwise ineligible voters. For example, President Trump and Giuliani
               frequently alleged that more than 66,000 unregistered juveniles voted in Georgia.289 In fact, no underage people voted in Georgia.290 Giuliani offered several different made-up figures of the number of non-citizens
               who supposedly voted in Arizona, but provided no evidence to substantiate his claims.291 In fact, Arizona requires every new voter to provide proof of citizenship in order
               to register to voteor to complete a Federal voter registration form that requires
               the individual to sign an attestation to citizenship status under penalty of perjuryand
               no person can vote without being registered.292 By mid-November, Trump Campaign staff determined this allegation that thousands of
               non-citizens voted in Arizona was based on highly unreliable information, and it
               is one of the false claims that led to Giuliani losing his New York law license.293  These ineligible voters did not exist. 
            Nor were thousands of votes cast in the names of dead Americans. 
            During his January 2nd, call with Georgia Secretary of State Raffensperger, the President
               claimed that close to about 5,000 [dead] voters cast ballots in the election.   Raffensperger quickly informed the President this wasnt true. 294 But the dead voter lie wasnt limited to Georgia. President Trump wanted Americans
               to believe that dead voters contributed to his defeat in several battleground States.295
            But even the Trump Campaign and its lawyers recognized early on that the claims regarding
               dead voters were grossly exaggerated, to say the least. By early November, Trump
               lawyers discovered that many people listed by the campaign as having died were actually
               alive and well.296 In early December, Eric Herschmann advised Chief of Staff Meadows by text message
               that the Trump legal team had determined that the claim of more than 10,000 dead people
               voting in Georgia was not accurate.297 The ensuing exchange makes clear that both men knew that Giulianis claims were absurd:
               
            Herschmann:  Just an FYI. Alex Cannon and his team verified that the 10k+ supposed
               dead people voting in GA is not accurate 
            Meadows:  I didnt hear that claim. It is not accurate.  I think I found 22 if I remember
               correctly.  Two of them died just days before the general 
            Herschmann:  It was alleged in Rudy's hearing today. Your number is much closer to
               what we can prove. I think it's 12
            Meadows:  My son found 12 obituaries and 6 other possibles depending on the Voter
               roll acuracy [sic]
            Herschmann:  That sounds more like it. Maybe he can help Rudy find the other 10k ??
            Meadows:  lol298
            Shortly thereafter, a Georgia court dismissed the claim that there were tens of thousands
               of votes cast by ineligible voters, noting the claims rest on speculation rather
               than duly pled facts.299 
            The Trump Campaigns own expert on the supposed dead voters admitted that the Campaign
               lacked the necessary data to make any conclusions about whether any (or how many)
               votes were cast in the name of a deceased person.300 State officials did have such data, however, and were able to conduct the type of matching analysis required.
               These State authorities determined that there were only a handful of cases in which
               people voted on behalf of deceased individuals.301 
            Even in those cases where the person who voted actually did die, President Trumps
               lawyers knew that the vast majority of the voters included on their list of dead voters
               actually cast their votes before they passed.302 In early-January 2021, just days before January 6th, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham
               asked several Trump lawyers to provide evidence to support the Campaigns claims regarding
               dead voters.303 As Giulianis team investigated, they concluded that they could not find evidence
               of dead voters anywhere near the number that Giuliani and President Trump were claiming
               publicly. After noting the shortcomings in their evidence, Katherine Friess, a lawyer
               working with the Giuliani legal team, warned that Senator Graham would push back
               on their evidence.304 As predicted by Friess, Senator Graham was not impressed by the information provided
               by Giulianis team. In his speech on the Senate floor on January 6th, Graham explained
               why he would not object to the certification of electoral votes. Senator Graham referred
               to the failure of the Trump attorneys to provide the evidence he requested:
            They said theres 66,000 people in Georgia under 18 voted.  How many people believe
               that?  I asked, Give me 10. Hadnt had one.  They said 8,000 felons in prison in
               Arizona voted.  Give me 10.  Hadnt gotten one.  Does that say theresTheres problems
               in every election. I dont buy this. Enoughs enough. Weve got to end it.305
            Documents obtained by the Select Committee reveal that President Trump and his lawyers
               knew that the claims being made in court about dead or ineligible voters in Georgia
               were inaccurate, and the lawyers were concerned that if the President vouched for
               those claims in another court pleading he might be criminally prosecuted.  On December
               31st, as the lawyers rushed to file a Federal lawsuit in Georgia, some of the lawyers
               raised concerns about the President signing a verification under oath that the allegations
               regarding voter fraud in Georgia, including claims regarding dead people voting, were
               true. As Dr. Eastman noted in an email to his colleagues on December 31st: 
            Although the President signed a verification [regarding the Georgia claims] back on
               Dec. 1, he has since been made aware that some of the allegations (and evidence proffered
               by the experts) has been inaccurate. For him to sign a new verification with that
               knowledge . . . would not be accurate. And I have no doubt that an aggressive DA or
               US Atty someplace will go after both the President and his lawyers once all the dust
               settles on this.306
            Despite these concerns, President Trump and his attorneys filed a complaint that incorporated
               the same inaccurate numbers, and President Trump signed a verification swearing under
               oath that the inaccurate numbers were true and correct or believed to be true and
               correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.307 A Federal judge reviewing the relevant emails and pleadings recently concluded: 
            The emails show that President Trump knew that the specific numbers of voter fraud
               were wrong but continued to tout those numbers, both in court and to the public. The
               Court finds that these emails are sufficiently related to and in furtherance of a
               conspiracy to defraud the United States.308
            1.9 President Trumps January 6th Speech
            At noon on January 6, 2021, President Trump addressed thousands of his supporters
               at a rally just south of the White House. The election had been decided two months
               earlier. The courts found there was no evidence of significant fraud. The States certified
               their votes by mid-December. It was overPresident Trump lost. But thats not what
               the President told those in attendance. He delivered an incendiary speech from beginning
               to end, arguing that nothing less than the fate of America was at stake.
            Our country has had enough, President Trump said. We will not take it anymore and
               that's what this is all about.309 He claimed that his followers had descended on Washington to save our democracy
               and stop the steal.310 He refused, once again, to concede. And he proclaimed that [t]oday I will lay out
               just some of the evidence proving that we won this election and we won it by a landslide.311
            
                  Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty Images
               
            
            For months, President Trump had relentlessly promoted his Big Lie.312 He and his associates manufactured one tale after another to justify it. For more
               than an hour on January 6th, the President wove these conspiracy theories and lies
               together.313 
            By the Select Committees assessment, there were more than 100 times during his speech
               in which President Trump falsely claimed that either the election had been stolen
               from him, or falsely claimed that votes had been compromised by some specific act
               of fraud or major procedural violations. That day, President Trump repeated many of
               the same lies he had told for monthseven after being informed that many of these
               claims were false.  He lied about Dominion voting machines in Michigan, suitcases
               of ballots in Georgia, more votes than voters in Pennsylvania, votes cast by non-citizens
               in Arizona, and dozens of other false claims of election fraud.314 None of those claims were true. 
            As explained in the chapters that follow, the Big Lie was central to President Trumps
               plan to stay in power. He used the Big Lie to pressure State and local officials to
               undo the will of the people. His campaign convened fake electors on the baseless pretense
               that former Vice President Biden won several States due to fraud or other malfeasance.
               The President tried to subvert the Department of Justice by browbeating its leadership
               to endorse his election lies. And when the DOJs senior personnel did not acquiesce,
               President Trump sought to install a loyalist who would. 
            When all those efforts failed, President Trump betrayed his own Vice President. He
               pressured Vice President Pence to obstruct the joint session of Congress on January
               6th, falsely claiming that he had the power to refuse to count certain electoral votes.
               President Trump knew this was illegal but attempted to justify it with lies about
               the election.
            On December 19, 2020, President Trump summoned a mob to Washington, DC on the same
               day that Congress was set to certify former Vice President Bidens victory by claiming
               the election was stolen and promising a wild protest.315
            And the bogus stolen election claim was the focus of President Trumps speech on January
               6th. The litany of lies he told riled up a mob that would march to the U.S. Capitol
               to intimidate Vice President Pence and Members of Congress. 
            And we fight. We fight like hell. And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going
               to have a country anymore, President Trump told the crowd.316 He incited them with these words just after praising his own election night liethe
               Big Lie.
            President Trump told his followers to fight to save their country from a bogus
               specter of supposed election fraud.317 And many of them did. 
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  Donald Trump 2020 Election Night Speech Transcript, Rev, (Nov. 4, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript. 
               2.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 54, 60.
               3.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 74-75.
               4.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 75, 78.
               5.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               6.  We note that Bannon refused to testify and has been convicted of criminal contempt
                  by a jury of his peers. See Stephen K. Bannon Sentenced to Four Months in Prison on Two Counts of Contempt of
                  Congress, Department of Justice, (Oct. 21, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/stephen-k-bannon-sentenced-four-months-prison-two-counts-contempt-congress; Dan Friedman, Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely
                  Claim Victory, Mother Jones, (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/. 
               7.  At his interview, Stone invoked his Fifth Amendment Right not to incriminate himself,
                  including to questions regarding his direct communications with Donald Trump and his
                  role in January 6th. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), at 39:15 - 39:33 available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQvuBoLBuC0. 
               8.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 27.
               9.  Jennifer Agiesta and Marshall Cohen, CNN Poll: Questions about Accuracy of Vote Counting Rise as
                  Most Want to Vote before Election Day, CNN, (Aug. 18, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/18/politics/cnn-poll-trump-biden-election-security-mail-in-voting/index.html; Mark Murray, Biden Leads Trump by 10 points in Final Pre-Election NBC News/WSJ
                  poll, NBC News, (Nov. 1, 2020, updated Nov. 2, 2020), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/meet-the-press/biden-leads-trump-10-points-final-pre-election-nbc-news-n1245667. 
               10.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               11.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               12.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 44.
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 44-45.
               14.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               15.  Dan Friedman, Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely
                  Claim Victory, Mother Jones, (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/. During our October 13 hearing, Robert Costa tweeted:  CBS News has confirmed that
                  Oct. 31, 2020, was a key date in the pre-election maneuvers by Trump. Set off alarm
                  with WH counsel and Herschmann, among others. Ive seen texts from that night from
                  some aides and they knew it was no joke; declaring victory was Trumps plan. Period.
                  Maggie Haberman retweeted Costa, writing: Trump told a conference call of a bunch
                  of lawyers and informal advisers working for him earlier that month that he was going
                  to go up and say he won, first reported by @jonathanvswan. Robert Costa (@costareports),
                  Twitter, Oct. 13, 2022 1:29 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/costareports/status/1580611586674151424?lang=en; see also Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT), Twitter, Oct. 13, 2022 1:35 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/maggienyt/status/1580613143637635072 (Trump told a conference call of a bunch of lawyers and informal advisers working
                  for him earlier that month that he was going to go up and say he won, first reported
                  by @jonathanvswan).
               16.  Dan Friedman, Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely
                  Claim Victory, Mother Jones, (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/. 
               17.  Fox Business, Steve Bannon: Trump Wont Allow the Election to Be Stolen, YouTube,
                  at 3:24, Nov. 3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PDdxoyAUqoo. 
               18.  Steve Bannon: Donald Trump Will Claim Victory Right Before the 11 Oclock News,
                  Media Matters, (Nov. 3, 2020), available at https://www.mediamatters.org/steve-bannon/steve-bannon-donald-trump-will-claim-victory-right-11-oclock-news-0.
               19.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               20.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               21.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               22.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               23.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (Email chain between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael, starting on October 31, 2020, and
                  ending on November 3, 2020, discussing a draft victory statement for President Trump).
               24.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), at 38:18 - 39:32, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQvuBoLBuC0. 
               25.  Jonathan Swan, Trump Plans to Declare Premature Victory If He Appears on Election
                  Night, Axios, (Nov. 1, 2020), available at https://www.axios.com/2020/11/01/trump-claim-election-victory-ballots. 
               26.  Jonathan Swan, Trump Plans to Declare Premature Victory If He Appears on Election
                  Night, Axios, (Nov. 1, 2020), available at https://www.axios.com/2020/11/01/trump-claim-election-victory-ballots. 
               27.  Jonathan Swan, Trump Plans to Declare Premature Victory If He Appears on Election
                  Night, Axios, (Nov. 1, 2020), available at https://www.axios.com/2020/11/01/trump-claim-election-victory-ballots. 
               28.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               29.  Months prior to the election, Josh Mendelsohn, the CEO of Hawkfish, a Democratic
                  data and analytics firm, warned that President Trump would try to take advantage of
                  the Red Mirage. See Margaret Talev, Exclusive: Dem Group Warns of Apparent Trump Election Day Landslide,
                  Axios, (Sept. 1, 2020), available at https://www.axios.com/2020/09/01/bloomberg-group-trump-election-night-scenarios. For other accounts warning that election night would see a Red Mirage, see Marshall Cohen, Deciphering the Red Mirage, the Blue Shift, and the Uncertainty
                  Surrounding Election Results This November, CNN, (Sept. 1, 2020), available at https://www.cnn.com/2020/09/01/politics/2020-election-count-red-mirage-blue-shift/index.html; Darragh Roche, Trump Is Heading for a Red Mirage Win on Election Night, Bloomberg-Funded
                  Data Firm Says, Newsweek, (Sept. 1, 2020), available at https://www.newsweek.com/trump-phantom-win-election-1528948; Tom McCarthy, Red Mirage: The Insidious Scenario If Trump Declares Victory,
                  The Guardian, (Oct. 31, 2020), available at https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/oct/31/red-mirage-trump-election-scenario-victory. 
               30.  Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus
                  Task Force in Press Briefing, White House, April 7, 2020, available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-vice-president-pence-members-coronavirus-task-force-press-briefing-april-7-2020/. 
               31.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Apr. 8, 2020 8:20 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201201162757/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1247861952736526336 (archived).
               32.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, May 24, 2020 10:08 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20200701075716/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1264558926021959680 (archived).
               33.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Sept. 17, 2020 7:56 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201115164217/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1306562791894122504 (archived).
               34.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 36; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010941_0001-2, , 076P-R000010940_0001-6
                  (July 23, 2020, emails regarding scheduling a meeting for the President with McCarthy,
                  Stepien, and others).
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 36.
               36.  Fox News, President Trump Goes One-on-One with Chris Wallace, YouTube, July 19,
                  2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6XdpDOH1JA; Pat Ward (@WardDPatrick), Twitter, July 19, 2020 10:15 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/WardDPatrick/status/1284854318575878144. 
               37.  Remarks by President Trump in Press Briefing, White House, Sept. 23, 2020, available
                  at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-press-briefing-092420/. 
               38.  Remarks by President Trump in Press Briefing, White House, Sept. 23, 2020, available
                  at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-press-briefing-092420/.
               39.  Barbara Sprunt, Trump Questions Election Again after White House Walked Back His
                  Earlier Remarks, NPR, (Sept. 24, 2020), available at https://www.npr.org/2020/09/24/916440816/republican-leaders-reject-trump-hedging-on-transfer-of-power-amid-war-over-confi. 
               40.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 12:49 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201105044240/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1323864823680126977 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 10:04 a.m.
                  ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201104153504/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1324004491612618752 (archived).
               41.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 44-45.
               42.  Donald Trump 2020 Election Night Speech Transcript, Rev, (Nov. 4, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript. 
               43.  See Donald Trump 2020 Election Night Speech Transcript, Rev, (Nov. 4, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 12:49 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201104060648/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1323864823680126977 (archived).
               44.  Dan Friedman, Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely
                  Claim Victory, Mother Jones, (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/. 
               45.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, at esp. 1:42-3:35, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 10:17 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1324007806694023169.jpg (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 10:04 a.m.
                  ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1324004491612618752.jpg (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 18, 2020 8:22 p.m.
                  ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1329233502139715586.jpg (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 8:49 p.m.
                  ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1329602736053252107.jpg (archived).
               46.  For example, one widely shared post claimed that, in the early-morning hours of November
                  4, hundreds of thousands of mail in ballots were found in Wisconsin, Michigan, and
                  Pennsylvania, and all of the ballots were for Biden. Nick Adams (@NickAdamsinUSA),
                  Twitter, Nov. 4, 2020 4:48 p.m., available at https://web.archive.org/web/20201110150437/https://twitter.com/NickAdamsinUSA/status/1324151663641448448 (archived).
               47.  In many metropolitan areas, absentee ballots are counted in centralized locations
                  and reported in batches. For example, the ballots that were supposedly found in
                  Wisconsin were absentee ballots reported by Milwaukee County when that county completed
                  its tally. Of the approximately 181,000 votes reported between 3:26 and 3:44 a.m.,
                  Biden received approximately 83% of the votes and Trump received approximately 17%.
                  See Eric Litke and Madeline Heim, Fact check: Wisconsin Did Not Find 100K Ballots
                  around 4 a.m. the Morning after the Election, or Take Break from Counting Votes,
                  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, (Nov. 4, 2020), available at https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/11/04/wisconsin-didnt-find-ballots-stop-count-voter-fraud-claims-untrue-politifact/6165435002/. In Michigan, no ballots were found between 3:30-5:00 a.m. Rather, approximately
                  200,000 votes were reported by Wayne County shortly after 6:00 a.m., the vast majority
                  of which were for Biden. See Geoffrey Skelley, Live Bog: 2020 Election Results Coverage: Michigans Morning Update,
                  FiveThirtyEight, (Nov. 4, 2020), available at https://fivethirtyeight.com/live-blog/2020-election-results-coverage/#294294. Overall, Biden won 68% of the vote in Wayne County, to 30% for Trump. However, among
                  absentee voters, Biden won 75% to Trumps 23%. See November 3, 2020 - General Election Results, Charter County of Wayne, Michigan,
                  available at https://www.waynecounty.com/elected/clerk/november-3-2020-general-election-results.aspx.
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 45; See also John Curiel, Charles Stewart III, and Jack Williams, One Shift, Two Shifts, Red Shift, Blue Shifts: Reported Election Returns in the 2020
                     Election, MIT Election Data and Science Lab, (July 9, 2021), p. 40, available at https://electionlab.mit.edu/sites/default/files/2021-07/curiel_stewart_williams_blue_shift_esra_final.pdf,  (detailed analysis of timed reporting data shows that smaller and more rural counties,
                  which favored Trump, could report their ballots before the counties with hundreds
                  of precincts and hundreds of thousands of voters).
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 8.
               50.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 8.
               51.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 119, 124-26, 174.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 174. 
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudy Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 2223. 
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudy Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 23, 26.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudy Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 35 (describing Ellis as a co-counsel
                  and my number two person so generally, if you got an opinion from Jenna, it would
                  be just like getting an opinion from me).
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 10, 1518. 
               57.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 92.
               58.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 111112.
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 134; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM007288, (November 13, 2020, email from Bill
                  Stepien to Mark Meadows, Justin Clark, and Jason Miller titled Fwd: AZ Federal ID
                  Voters).
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Alex Cannon, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 1923.
               61.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Alex Cannon, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 3839.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Alex Cannon, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 33-34.
               63.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 119.
               64.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 11718.
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 11213.
               66.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 8891.
               67.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM010951-52 (November 3, 2020,
                  Jason Miller text message to Mark Meadows at 10:27 pm); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Mark Meadows Production), MM010972 (November 3, 2020, Jason Miller group text message
                  to Mark Meadows and David Bossie at 11:53 pm); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production),
                  MM011343 (November 6, 2020, Jason Miller group text message to Mark Meadows, Ivanka
                  Trump, Bill Stepien, Hope Hicks, Dan Scavino, and Jared Kushner at 11:10 am).
               68.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 91.
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 91. 
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 115 17; Brian Slodysko,
                  Explainer: Why AP Called Pennsylvania for Biden, Associated Press (Nov. 7, 2020),
                  available at https://apnews.com/article/ap-called-pennsylvania-joe-biden-why-f7dba7b31bd21ec2819a7ac9d2b028d3. 
               71.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 115 20.
               72.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 118.
               73.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 119.
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.; Federal Election Commission, Federal Elections 2020  Election Results for the
                  U.S. President, the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives, Oct. 2022,
                  p. 12, available at https://www.fec.gov/resources/cms-content/documents/federalelections2020.pdf.
               76.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               77.  Risk-Limiting Audit Report  Georgia Presidential Contest, November 2020, Georgia
                  Secretary of State, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://sos.ga.gov/sites/default/files/2022-02/11.19_.20_risk_limiting_audit_report_memo_1.pdf.
               78.  See Summary of Hand Count Audits  2020 General Election, Arizona Secretary of State,
                  (Nov. 17, 2020), available at https://azsos.gov/2020-general-election-hand-count-results ;  Agreed Upon Procedures Report  Evaluation of the Accuracy of Voting Machine Tabulators
                  Used for the 2020 General Elections Held on November 3, 2020 (Voting System Check),
                  New Mexico Secretary of State, (Dec. 15, 2020), available at https://api.realfile.rtsclients.com/PublicFiles/ee3072ab0d43456cb15a51f7d82c77a2/f740346c-7b6b-4479-acd6-068829382307/2020%20Post%20Election%20Voting%20System%20Check%20Audit%20Results.pdf. Similar audits conducted by Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin also affirmed
                  the results in those states, but their results are excluded from this list because
                  in those instances their audit results were not available until after January 6th.
                  Shortly after the election, Nevada also conducted some post-election checks that supported
                  the validity of the results there too, including testing a sample of the voting machines
                  to make sure votes were accurately recorded.  Deposition of Joseph Gloria at 33, Law v. Whitmer, No. A-22-858609-W (Nev. Ct., Clark Cty. Dec. 1, 2020), p. 33, available at https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/2022.10.31-NV-Poll-Worker-Response-to-Application-for-Mandamus-STAMPED.pdf; Rex Briggs, Trump Supporters Asked me to Look into Voter Fraud in Nevada; What
                  I found Debunked What They were Alleging, Nevada Independent, (Dec. 22, 2020), available at https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/trump-supporters-asked-me-to-look-into-voter-fraud-in-nevada-what-i-found-debunked-what-they-were-alleging.
               79.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               80.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jared Kushner Production), JK_00115, JK00117-132(November 12, 2020, email from Matt Oczkowski, and attached analysis of battleground
                  states).
               81.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jared Kushner Production), JK_00115, JK_00117-132 (November 12, 2020, email from Matt Oczkowski, and attached analysis of battleground
                  states).
               82.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jared Kushner Production), JK_00115, JK_00117-132  (November 12, 2020, email from Matt Oczkowski, and attached analysis of battleground
                  states).
               83.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jared Kushner Production), JK_00115, JK_00117-132 (November 12, 2020, email from Matt Oczkowski, and attached analysis of battleground
                  states).
               84.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani (May 20, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               85.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani (May 20, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               86.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani (May 20, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               87.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 106-107. Sidney Powell
                  and Jenna Ellis accompanied Giuliani. The campaign was represented by Jared Kushner,
                  Bill Stepien, David Bossie (a former senior official on President Trumps 2016 campaign),
                  Derek Lyons, and Justin Clark. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), pp. 50-51; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Derek Lyons, (Mar. 17, 2022), pp. 64-65. Eric Herschmann also arrived at the campaign
                  headquarters as the meeting was underway. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Mar. 17, 2022), pp. 160-61.   
               88.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 109.
               89.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 109. 
               90.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 107.
               91.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 63; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 34-35.
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 14-16.
               93.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 14-16.
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 41. 
               95.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 63.
               96.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 34-35, 41-42. 
               97.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 41.
               98.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 63.  
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 63.
               100.  Rudy Giuliani Trump Campaign Philadelphia Press Conference at Four Seasons Total
                  Landscaping, Rev, (Nov. 7, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-trump-campaign-philadelphia-press-conference-november-7. 
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 30-32.
               102.  Memorandum from Attorney General William Barr on Post-Voting Election Irregularity
                  Inquiries to the United States Attorneys, to the Assistant Attorneys General for the
                  Criminal Division, Civil Rights Division, and National Security Division, and to the
                  Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice, (Nov. 9,
                  2020), available at https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/20403358-william-barr-election-memo-november-9. Longstanding DOJ policy had been not to conduct such investigations prior to certification
                  to avoid impacting election results. See  Federal Prosecution of Election Offenses, 8th ed. Department of Justice, December 2017, at 84, available at https://www.justice.gov/criminal/file/1029066/download.
               103.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 66-67; Mike Pence, So Help Me God, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2022), at pp. 431-432.
               104.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 66-67.
               105.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), p. 67; Mike Pence, So Help Me God, (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2022), at pp. 431.
               106.  See Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 15, 2020 7:11 p.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201117115935/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1327811527123103746 (archived).
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 37-38.
               108.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 174-175.
               109.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM007112 (Nov. 14, 2020 email
                  from Jason Miller to Bill Stepien, Justin Clark, David Bossie, Mark Meadows, and Jared
                  Kushner describing Rudy Giulianis surrogate briefing).
               110.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM007112 (Nov. 14, 2020 email
                  from Jason Miller to Bill Stepien, Justin Clark, David Bossie, Mark Meadows, and Jared
                  Kushner describing Rudy Giulianis surrogate briefing).
               111.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM007112 (Nov. 14, 2020 email
                  from Jason Miller to Bill Stepien, Justin Clark, David Bossie, Mark Meadows, and Jared
                  Kushner describing Rudy Giulianis surrogate briefing). 
               112.  Factba.se, Interview: Brian Kilmeade of Fox News Interviews Donald Trump - December
                  13, 2020, Vimeo, at 7:47, Dec. 13, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/490517184. 
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               114.  Select Committee staff analyzed the lawsuits. See also, Brendan Williams, Did President Trumps 2020 Election Litigation Kill Rule11?, 30 Pub. Interest L. J. 181, 189 (2021), available at https://www.bu.edu/pilj/files/2021/06/Williams.pdf.
               115.  The only case that involved a victory for the campaign was the Pennsylvania case
                  of Trump v. Boockvar. In that case, the court found that the Pennsylvania Secretary of State could not
                  extend the deadline for voters to cure their failure to provide proper identification
                  for absentee ballots. This decision affected just a few thousand votes, which were
                  not included in any tallies.  Trump v. Boockvar, No. 602 MD 2020 (Pa. Commw. Ct. Nov. 12, 2020), available at https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/602-MD-20-1.pdf. 
               116.  See John Danforth, Benjamin Ginsberg, Thomas B. Griffith, et al., Lost, Not Stolen: The Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential
                     Election, (July 2022), p. 3, available at https://lostnotstolen.org/download/378/. 
               117.  Complaint at 2, Bowyer v. Ducey, 506 F. Supp. 3d 699 (D. Ariz. Dec. 2, 2020) (No. 2:20-cv-02321), ECF No. 1. 
               118.  Bowyer v. Ducey, 506 F. Supp. 3d 699, 706, 723 (D. Ariz. 2020).
               119.  Minute Entry and Order at 6-9, Ward v. Jackson, No. CV2020-015285 (Az. Sup. Ct.  Dec. 4, 2020).
               120.  See Ward v. Jackson, No. CV-20-0343-AP, 2020 Ariz. LEXIS 313, at *6 (Ariz. 2020), also available at https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1984/637437053596970000; Howard Fischer, State Supreme Court rejects GOP bid to void election, Arizona Capitol Times, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://azcapitoltimes.com/news/2020/12/08/federal-judge-hears-arguments-in-election-challenge/; Meet the Justices, Arizona Judicial Branch, (Dec. 8, 2020), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201208032900/https://www.azcourts.gov/meetthejustices/ (archived); Brutinel Elected as Next Arizona Supreme Court Chief Justice, Associated Press, (Nov. 20, 2018), available at https://apnews.com/article/27b725d44d384e2cb7a0e491ac82fe7f; Bob Christie, Ducey Names 2 to New Arizona Supreme Court Seats, Associated Press, (Nov. 28, 2016), available at https://apnews.com/article/26fc7f154b0e4b4fb358987941ded8d0; Arizona Governor Appoints New Supreme Court Justice, Associated Press, (Apr. 26, 2019), available at https://apnews.com/article/4ce4bf1d79724c03b1d4cf36f4b97cf1; Jonathan J. Cooper, Ducey Appoints Montgomery to Arizona Supreme Court, Associated Press, (Sep. 4, 2019), available at https://apnews.com/article/bac43d42185c4b8bb9e8c465a59792c8. 
               121.  Complaint at 1-2, Boland v. Raffensperger, No. 2020CV343018 (Ga. Super. Ct. Nov. 30, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Boland-v-Raffensperger-Complaint.pdf. 
               122.  Final Order at 5-6, Boland v. Raffensperger, No. No. 2020CV343018 (Ga. Super. Ct. Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Boland-v-Raffensperger-Order-Dismissing-Complaint.pdf. 
               123.  Order Denying Appeal, Boland v. Raffensperger, No. S21M0565 (Ga. Dec. 14, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Boland-v-Raffensperger-GA-SC-Order-Denying-Appeal.pdf; Jonathan Ringel, Deal Picks Krause, Richardson for Fulton Superior, Law.com, (Dec.
                  28, 2018), available at https://www.law.com/dailyreportonline/2018/12/28/deal-picks-krause-richardson-for-fulton-superior/; Chief Justice Harold D. Melton, Supreme Court of Georgia, (Oct. 16, 2020), available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201016174745/https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-harold-d-melton/ (archived); Presiding Justice David E. Nahmias, Supreme Court of Georgia, (Nov.
                  20, 2020), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201120204518/https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-david-e-nahmias/ (archived); Chief Justice Michael P. Boggs, Supreme Court of Georgia, (last accessed
                  Dec. 3, 2022), available at https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-michael-p-boggs/; Presiding Justice Nels S.D. Peterson, Supreme Court of Georgia, (last accessed
                  Dec. 3, 2022), available at https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-nels-s-d-peterson/; Justice Sarah Hawkins Warren, Supreme Court of Georgia, (last accessed Dec. 3,
                  2022), available at https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-sarah-hawkins-warren/; Justice Charles J. Bethel, Supreme Court of Georgia, (last accessed Dec. 3, 2022),
                  available at https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-charles-j-bethel/; Justice Carla Wong McMillian, Supreme Court of Georgia, (last accessed Dec. 3,
                  2022), available at https://www.gasupreme.us/court-information/biographies/justice-carla-wong-mcmillian/. 
               124.  Wood v. Raffensperger, 501 F. Supp. 3d 1310, 1317, 1327, 1331 (N.D. Ga. 2020).
               125.  Wood v. Raffensperger, 501 F. Supp. 3d 1310, 1327 (N.D. Ga. 2020).
               126.  Complaint for Declaratory, Emergency, and Permanent Injunctive Relief, King v. Whitmer, Case No. 2:20-cv-13134-LVP-RSW,(E.D. Mich. Nov. 25, 2020), ECF No. 1; King v. Whitmer, 505 F. Supp. 3d 720, 738 (E.D. Mich. 2020). In a subsequent decision, the judge
                  called the case a historic and profound abuse of the judicial process and sanctioned
                  the attorneys who filed the lawsuit King v. Whitmer, 556 F. Supp. 3d 680, 688-89 (E.D. Mich. 2021).
               127.  Opinion and Order at 1, 4, Stoddard v. City Election Commission, No. 20-014604-CZ, (Mich. Cty. Cir. Ct.  Nov. 6, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/AG/releases/2020/november/Stoddard_et_al_v_City_Election_Commission_et_al_-_11-06-2020.pdf?rev=2fa32f93caa94365a1ee8c1c492a4e75. 
               128.  Opinion and Order at 12-13, Costantino v. Detroit, No. 20-014780-AW, (Mich. Cty. Cir. Ct. Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Costantino-v-Detroit-Opinion-and-Order.pdf. 
               129.  Law v. Whitmer, No. 10 OC 00163 1B, 2020 Nev. Unpub. LEXIS 1160, at *1, 29-31, 33, 48-49, 52, 54
                  (Nev. Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://casetext.com/case/law-v-whitmer-1 (attaching and affirming lower court decision).
               130.  Law v. Whitmer, No. 10 OC 00163 1B, 2020 Nev. Unpub. LEXIS 1160, at *3-4 (Nev. Dec. 8, 2020), available
                  at https://casetext.com/case/law-v-whitmer-1 (attaching and affirming lower court decision).
               131.  Donald J. Trump for President v. Boockvar, 502 F. Supp. 3d 899, 906 (M.D. Pa. 2020).
               132.  Donald J. Trump for President v. Boockvar, 803 Fed. App'x. 377, 381 (M.D. Pa. 2020).
               133.  Eleven Nominations Sent to the Senate Today, Trump White House Archives, (June
                  19, 2017), available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/eleven-nominations-sent-senate-today-3/. 
               134.  Complaint at 72, Trump v. Wisconsin Election Commission, 506 F. Supp. 3d 620 (E.D. Wis. 2020) (No. 2:20-cv-01785), ECF No. 1; Trump v. Wisconsin Election Commission, 506 F. Supp. 3d 620, 625 (E.D. Wis. 2020) (dismissing case with prejudice).
               135.  Trump v. Wisconsin Election Commission, 506 F. Supp. 3d 620, 637-39 (E.D. Wis. 2020).
               136.  Trump v. Wisconsin Election Commission, 983 F.3d 919, 922 (7th Cir. 2020); Bill Glauber, Federal Appeals Court Turns Down
                  Donald Trump Push to Overturn Election Results in Wisconsin, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, (Dec. 24, 2020), available at https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/12/24/federal-appeals-court-rejects-trump-bid-overturn-wisconsin-results/4043650001/. 
               137.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               138.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 170-71.
               139.  For example, Select Committee data analysts found that certain legacy media networks
                  played a role in promoting false claims of voter fraud and other election conspiracies.
                  See Staff Memorandum from Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol Data Analysts, Legacy Media Analysis, (Dec. 3, 2022).
               140.  Center for an Informed Public, Digital Forensic Research Lab, Graphika, &amp; Stanford
                  Internet Observatory, The Long Fuse: Misinformation and the 2020 Election, (Jun. 15, 2021), p. 173, available at https://stacks.stanford.edu/file/druid:tr171zs0069/EIP-Final-Report.pdf. 
               141.  Center for an Informed Public, Digital Forensic Research Lab, Graphika, &amp; Stanford
                  Internet Observatory, The Long Fuse: Misinformation and the 2020 Election, (Jun. 15, 2021), p. 82, available at https://stacks.stanford.edu/file/druid:tr171zs0069/EIP-Final-Report.pdf. 
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 9.
               143.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 10.
               144.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 9; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard
                  Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 67.
               145.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021) pp. 59-60.
               146. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 36-37.
               147.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               148.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2022), p. 60.
               149.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 60-61, 63-64.
               150.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 53, 67.
               151.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 59-60.
               152.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 61-62.
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 54-55.
               154.  See, e.g., Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; Law v. Whitmer, No. 10 OC 00163 1B, 2020 Nev. Unpub. LEXIS 1160, at *3-4 (Nev. Dec. 8, 2020), available
                  at https://casetext.com/case/law-v-whitmer-1 (attaching and affirming lower court decision); Donald J. Trump for President v. Boockvar, 502 F. Supp. 3d 899, 906 (M.D. Pa. 2020); Wood v. Raffensperger, 501 F. Supp. 3d 1310, 1317, 1327, 1331 (N.D. Ga. 2020); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump),
                  Twitter, Dec. 26, 6:23 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201228020228/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1342974373632876545 (archived); Rudy Giulianis Common Sense, WATCH this BEFORE January 6th | Rudy Giulianis
                  Common Sense | Ep. 100, Rumble, at 29:30, available at https://rumble.com/embed/vcrv8j/?pub=4.
               155.  Fact Checks, Michigan Department of State, (last accessed on Dec. 3, 2022), available
                  at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/faqs/elections-and-campaign-finance/fact-checks. 
               156.  See, e.g., Secretary of States Office Debunks Ware County Voting Machine Story, Georgia Secretary
                  of State, (Dec. 7, 2020), available at https://sos.ga.gov/news/secretary-states-office-debunks-ware-county-voting-machine-story; News Conference on Georgia Vote Count, C-SPAN, Nov. 9, 2020, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?477943-1/news-conference-georgia-vote-count; Georgia Election Security, C-SPAN, Jan. 4, 2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507710-1/georgia-election-official-refutes-president-trumps-voter-fraud-allegations. 
               157.  See, e.g., PBS NewsHour, WATCH: Wisconsin Elections Commission Gives Vote Counting Update,
                  YouTube, Nov. 4, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yg5liyyrObc.
               158.  See, e.g., Declaration of Charles Stewart III, Trump v. Raffensperger, No. 2020CV33255 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 14, 2020) (expert declaration of political
                  scientist at MIT); Examining Irregularities in the 2020 Election Before the S. Comm. on Homeland Security
                     and Governmental Affairs, 116th Cong. (Dec. 16, 2020) (statement of Chris Krebs, former Director of the Cybersecurity
                  and Infrastructure Security Agency); Scientists Say No Credible Evidence of Computer
                  Fraud in the 2020 Election Outcome, But Policymakers Must Work with Experts to Improve
                  Confidence, Matt Blazes Exhaustive Search, (Nov. 16, 2020), available at https://www.mattblaze.org/blog/election-letter/. 
               159.  Search results for Dominion, Trump Twitter Archive V2, (last accessed Dec. 12,
                  2022), available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22dominion%22.
               160.  See, e.g., Remarks by President Trump During Thanksgiving Video Teleconference with Members
                  of the Military, Trump White House archives, (Nov. 27, 2020), available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-thanksgiving-video-teleconference-members-military/; Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News  November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://factba.se/trump/transcript/donald-trump-interview-fox-news-sunday-morning-futures-maria-bartiromo-november-29-2020; Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, (Dec.
                  2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2; Factba.se, Donald Trump Vlog: Contesting Election Results  December 22, 2020,
                  (Dec. 22, 2020), available at https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-vlog-contesting-election-results-december-22-2020; Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election,
                  Rev, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-rally-speech-transcript-dalton-georgia-senate-runoff-election; Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27. 
               161.  J.M. Rieger, The False Claims from Fox News and Trump Allies Cited in Dominions
                  $1.6 Billion Lawsuit, Washington Post, (Mar. 26, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/03/26/fox-trump-election-dominion/. 
               162.  Elahe Izadi and Sarah Ellison, Fox News Has Dropped Lou Dobbs Tonight, Promoter
                  of Trumps False Election Fraud Claims, Washington Post, (Feb. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/media/2021/02/05/lou-dobbs-canceled-fox/; 60 Minutes, Dominion Voting Systems and the Baseless Conspiracy Theories about
                  the 2020 Election | 60 Minutes, YouTube, at 2:123:20, (Oct. 23, 2022), at 2:12-2:51,
                  available at https://youtu.be/492jILlPtlA?t=132.
               163.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 12, 2020 11:34 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201112163413/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1326926226888544256 (archived).
               164.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Zach Parkinson Production), Parkinson0388-0407 (Internal
                  Trump Campaign memo dated November 12, 2020); Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Andrew Zachary Zach
                  Parkinson, (May 18, 2022), pp. 46-47. 
               165.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Zach Parkinson Production), Parkinson0388-0407 (Internal
                  Trump Campaign memo dated November 12, 2020). 
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 117, 133.
               167.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM007666, MM007669 (November
                  12, 2020, email and attachment from Jason Miller to Mark Meadows transmitting abridged
                  and full internal Trump Campaign memo); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production),
                  MM011902, MM011974 (Nov. 12 and 13, 2020 text messages from Jason Miller to Mark Meadows
                  discussing the investigation into Dominion and the lack of evidence of foreign interference).
               168.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 143, 291.
               169.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 16, 2020 8:22 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?results=1&amp;searchbox=%22engineered+by+china%22 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 16, 2020 8:26 a.m.
                  ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201116132750/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1328328547598000130 (archived).
               170.  Joint Statement from Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council &amp;
                  the Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive Committees, Department
                  of Homeland Securitys Cybersecurity &amp; Infrastructure Security Agency, (Nov. 12, 2020),
                  available at https://www.cisa.gov/news/2020/11/12/joint-statement-elections-infrastructure-government-coordinating-council-election. 
               171.  Mark Bowden and Matthew Teague, How a County Clerk in Michigan Found Herself at
                  the Center of Trumps Attempt to Overthrow the Election, Time, (Dec. 15, 2021), available at https://time.com/6128812/the-steal-antrim-county-michigan/; Emma Brown, Aaron C. Davis, Jon Swaine, and Josh Dawsey, The Making of a Myth,
                  Washington Post, (May 9, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/interactive/2021/trump-election-fraud-texas-businessman-ramsland-asog/. 
               172.  Steven Nelson, Michigan Republicans Claim Software Issue Undercounted Trump Votes,
                  New York Post, (Nov. 6, 2020), available at https://nypost.com/2020/11/06/michigan-gop-claims-software-issue-undercounted-trump-votes/. 
               173.  Isolated User Error in Antrim County Does Not Affect Election Results, Has No Impact
                  on Other Counties or States, Michigan Secretary of State, (Nov. 7, 2020), available
                  at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim_Fact_Check.pdf?rev=7a929e4d262e4532bbe574a3b82ddbcf; Hand Audit of All Presidential Election Votes in Antrim County Confirms Previously
                  Certified Results, Voting Machines Were Accurate, Michigan Secretary of State, (Dec.
                  17, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/resources/news/2020/12/17/hand-audit-of-all-presidential-election-votes-in-antrim-county-confirms-previously-certified-result; J. Alex Halderman, Analysis of the Antrim County, Michigan November 2020 Election Incident, (Mar. 26, 2021), pp. 17-27, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim.pdf?rev=fbfe881cdc0043a9bb80b783d1bb5fe9; Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), pp. 14-19, 36-55, available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf. 
               174.  Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), pp. 14-15, available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf.
               175.  Isolated User Error in Antrim County Does Not Affect Election Results, Has No Impact
                  on Other Counties or States, Michigan Secretary of State website, (Nov. 7, 2020),
                  available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim_Fact_Check.pdf?rev=7a929e4d262e4532bbe574a3b82ddbcf.
               176.  Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), pp. 14-19, available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf.
               177.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010292_0001
                  (November 12, 2020, email from Tim Walberg to Molly Michel re: Additional Presidential
                  Phone call follow up).
               178.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), pp. 70-74; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, (Department of Homeland Security Production), CTRL0000033284, (Nov. 13, 2020,
                  email from Molly Michael to Chad Wolf titled Re: Michigan Letter).
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21,
                  2022), pp. 72-74; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Department of Homeland Security Production),
                  CTRL0000033284, (Nov. 13, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Chad Wolf titled Re:
                  Michigan Letter); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), Exhibit 44, CTRL0000926977 (Nov. 13, 2020 letter to Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson
                  from Michigan State Senators Lana Theis and Tom Barrett).
               180.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), pp. 74-77 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf (Jan. 21, 2022), Exhibit 45, CTRL0000926978, (Nov. 16, 2020 email from Christopher Krebs responding to Chad Wolf,
                  Matthew Travis, and Brandon Wales entitled RE: Allegations).
               181.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), pp. 74-77; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf (Jan. 21, 2022), Exhibit 45, CTRL0000926978, (Nov. 16, 2020 email from Christopher Krebs to Chad Wolf, Matthew
                  Travis, and Brandon Wales entitled RE: Allegations); Isolated User Error in Antrim
                  County Does Not Affect Election Results, Has No Impact on Other Counties or States,
                  Michigan Secretary of State, (Nov. 7, 2020), available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim_Fact_Check.pdf?rev=7a929e4d262e4532bbe574a3b82ddbcf. 
               182.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), pp. 78-80. Even as the acting
                  Secretary of DHS was providing Meadows information he received from his Director of
                  CISA debunking the Dominion claims, the acting Assistant Secretary of DHS, Ken Cuccinelli,
                  was providing back channel information to Meadows in a possible effort to promote
                  the false Dominion claims. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), TEXT0000072, TEXT0000073,
                  (Nov. 12, 2020 text messages from Ken Cuccinelli to Mark Meadows) (Cuccinelli: I
                  have the dominion list of everywhere the machines are deployed that we know of. [I]t
                  is pretty extensive. It is in my DHS email account. Where do you want me to send it?
                  Meadows then provided Cuccinelli with his personal email address.).
               183.  Chris Krebs #Protect2020 (@CISAKrebs), Twitter, Nov. 17, 2020 11:45 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://twitter.com/CISAKrebs/status/1328741106624901120. 
               184.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010360_0001, 076P-R000010361_0001, (November 17, 2020 email and attached letter to Christopher Krebs from White House
                  Office of Presidential Personnel, stating respectively that the President has terminated
                  your appointment and that Pursuant to the direction of the President, your appointment
                  is hereby terminated, effective immediately).
               185.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 17, 2020 7:07 p.m ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201118040513/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1328852352787484677 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 17, 2020 7:07 p.m ET,
                  available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201118040930/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1328852354049957888 (archived).
               186.  Rudy Giuliani Trump Campaign Press Conference Transcript November 19: Election Fraud
                  Claims, Rev, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-trump-campaign-press-conference-transcript-november-19-election-fraud-claims. 
               187.  Rudy Giuliani Trump Campaign Press Conference Transcript November 19: Election Fraud
                  Claims, Rev, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-trump-campaign-press-conference-transcript-november-19-election-fraud-claims. 
               188.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Hope Hicks, (Oct. 25, 2022), pp. 88-91. See also Tucker Carlson: Time for Sidney Powell to Show Us Her Evidence: We Asked the Trump
                  Campaign Attorney for Proof of her Bombshell Claims. She Gave Us Nothing, Fox News,
                  (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/tucker-carlson-rudy-giuliani-sidney-powell-election-fraud.
               189.  Jenna Ellis (@JennaEllisEsq), Twitter, Nov. 22, 2020, 5:23 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/JennaEllisEsq/status/1330638034619035655. 
               190.  Donald J. Trump, (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 12:41 a.m. ET and 3:47
                  p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22dominion-izing%22 (archived).
               191.  One America News Network, Cyber Analyst on Dominion Voting: Shocking Vulnerabilities,
                  YouTube, at 0:41-1:14, 1:37-2:23, 2:42-3:36, Nov. 15, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eKcPoCNW8AA. 
               192.  Ron Watkins, (@codemonkeyz), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 12:45 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201121092200/https://twitter.com/CodeMonkeyZ/status/1329299640848584710 (archived); Ron Watkins, (@codemonkeyz), Twitter, Nov. 19, 2020 12:46 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201201175413/https://twitter.com/CodeMonkeyZ/status/1329300069623820289 (archived); Donald J. Trump, Twitter, Nov. 21, 2020 11:30 p.m. ET, Nov. 21, 2020,
                  11:31 p.m. ET, Nov. 21, 2020, 11:32 p.m. ET, Nov. 22, 2020, 3:35 p.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22dominion-izing%22&amp;dates=%5B%222020-11-20%22%2C%222020-11-24%22%5D (archived).
               193.  Barr met with President Trump between election day and January 6th on November 23,
                  December 1, and December 14. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 16, 22, 28.
               194.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 25, 27, 50; William Barr,
                  One Damn Thing After Another: Memoirs of an Attorney General, (New York: HarperCollins, 2022), at pp. 539, 554.
               195.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), p. 19.
               196.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, Nov. 29, 2020, at. 1:00-1:43, 3:23-4:36, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163.
               197.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, at 1:00-1:43, Nov. 29, 2020,  available at https://vimeo.com/485180163.
               198.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, at 1:50-2:40, Nov. 29, 2020, available at https://vimeo.com/485180163.
               199.  Factba.se, Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News - November
                  29, 2020, Vimeo, at 3:50-4:24, 22:40-23:52, 24:26-24:50, Nov. 29, 2020, available
                  at https://vimeo.com/485180163.
               200.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 22, 25-26.
               201.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 22, 25-26.
               202.  Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, (Dec.
                  2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2. 
               203.  King v. Whitmer, 505 F. Supp. 3d 720, 738 (E.D. Mich. 2020).
               204.  Bowyer v. Ducey, 506 F. Supp. 3d 699, 723 (D. Ariz. 2020) (finding the complaint void of plausible
                  allegations that Dominion voting machines were hacked or compromised in Arizona during
                  the 2020 General Election).
               205.  Isolated User Error in Antrim County Does Not Affect Election Results, Has No Impact
                  on Other Counties or States, Michigan Secretary of State, (Nov. 7, 2020), available
                  at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim_Fact_Check.pdf?rev=7a929e4d262e4532bbe574a3b82ddbcf.  
               206.  Decision and Order Granting Plaintiffs Motion for an Ex Parte Temporary Restraining
                  Order, Show Cause Order and Preliminary Injunction, No. 2020009238CZ (Mich. Cty. Cir.
                  Ct. Dec. 4, 2020).
               207.  Rudy W. Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani), Twitter, Dec. 4, 2020 7:12 p.m. ET, available at
                  https://twitter.com/RudyGiuliani/status/1335014224532221952?s=20&amp;t=20AZkk4gS2DeBo6q6QR-mw; Ronn Blitzer, Trump Legal Team Celebrates after Michigan Judge Allows Probe of
                  Dominion Voting Machines, Fox News, (Dec. 6, 2020), available at https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-legal-team-michigan-antrim-county-judge-order-dominion-machines; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), pp. 19, 147.
               208.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001368_00001,
                  pp. 1, 6 (Allied Security Operations Group Antrim Michigan Forensics Report, dated
                  Dec. 13, 2020).
               209.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R00001254_00001
                  (December 14, 2020, email from Joanna Miller to Peter Navarro attaching the ASOG Report
                  and noting that POTUS and VPOTUS are briefed).
               210.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HouseSelect-Jan6-PartII-01132022-000798(December
                  14, 2020, email from Molly Michael re: From POTUS asking the AG to look at ASOG report);
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001337_00001(December
                  14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen re: From
                  POTUS attaching ASOG report); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production),
                  076P-R000001367_00001(December 14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Michigan Senate
                  Majority Leader Mike Shirkey re: From POTUS attaching ASOG report); Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (National Archives Production) 076P-R000001361_00001(December 14, 2020, email
                  from Molly Michael to Senator Kelly Loeffler re: From POTUS attaching ASOG report);
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001358_00001(December
                  14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Arizona Governor Doug Ducey re: From POTUS attaching
                  ASOG report); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001370_00001
                  (December 14, 2020, email from Molly Michael to Republican Party Chairwoman Ronna
                  McDaniel re: From POTUS attaching ASOG report); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National
                  Archives Production), 076P-R000001378_00001 (December 14, 2020, email from Molly Michael
                  to Pennsylvania State Senator Doug Mastriano re: From POTUS attaching ASOG report).
               211.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 2:59 p.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201214214435/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1338574268154646528 (archived).
               212.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 28-29.
               213.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), p. 29.
               214.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 29-30.
               215.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 29-30.
               216.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 29-30.
               217.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Homeland Security Production) CTRL0000915111,
                  CTRL0000915117- CTRL0000915118 (draft analyses of ASOG report). Notably, the final
                  version of this review, which had been requested by the Attorney General, was edited
                  by senior DHS officials to remove the language most critical of ASOG before being
                  sent to the Department of Justice by Acting Assistant Secretary Ken Cuccinelli. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Homeland Security Production) CTRL0000915120
                  (emails circulating draft analyses), CTRL0000926941 (noting report was currently
                  in the Secretarys office); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production)
                  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000687- HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000688 (email and report provided to Donoghue by Cuccinelli); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard
                  Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 29-31.
               218.  See Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), p. 16, available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf; J. Alex Halderman, Analysis of the Antrim County, Michigan November 2020 Election Incident, (Mar. 26, 2021), available at https://www.michigan.gov//media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim.pdf?rev=fbfe881cdc0043a9bb80b783d1bb5fe9.
               219.  For example, President Trump and others frequently cited ASOGs finding that the
                  Dominion machines had a 68% error rate, but that conclusion was based on a complete
                  misunderstanding of the scanner log files reviewed by ASOG. Their report also claimed
                  that, due to these perceived errors, a staggering number of votes were determined
                  through an adjudication process that allowed for manipulation of votes, but no adjudication
                  software was installed on the Dominion machines.  J. Alex Halderman, Analysis of the Antrim County, Michigan November 2020 Election Incident, (Mar. 26, 2021), pp. 40-41, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim.pdf?rev=fbfe881cdc0043a9bb80b783d1bb5fe9.
               220.  Halderman concluded that I am not aware of any credible evidence that any security
                  problem was ever exploited against Antrim Countys election system. As my analysis
                  shows, the anomalies that occurred in the November 2020 results are fully explained
                  by human error. J. Alex Halderman, Analysis of the Antrim County, Michigan November 2020 Election Incident, (Mar. 26, 2021), p. 46, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/Antrim.pdf?rev=fbfe881cdc0043a9bb80b783d1bb5fe9.
               221.  Audits of the November 3, 2020 General Election, Michigan Secretary of State, (April
                  21, 2021), p. 32, available at  https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/BOE_2020_Post_Election_Audit_Report_04_21_21.pdf?rev=a3c7ee8c06984864870c540a266177f2.; Hand Count Calculation Sheet (Office: President of the United States, County:
                  Antrim), Michigan Secretary of State, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/AntrimCounty_Presidential_Race_Full_Hand_Count_November2020.pdf?rev=0bf12f08c33444c59bd145fbcfbb3e40.
               222.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik, (Jan. 13, 2022), p. 182.
               223.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               224.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Derek Lyons, (Mar. 17, 2022), pp. 21-22, 99; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (Jul. 8, 2022), pp. 44-50.
               225.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (Jul. 8, 2022), pp. 42-43.
               226.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (Jul. 8, 2022), p. 50.
               227.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 129.
               228.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert OBrien, (Aug. 23, 2022), pp. 163-65.
               229.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Chad Wolf, (Jan. 21, 2022), pp. 97-98, 102-103; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Ken Cuccinelli, (Dec. 7, 2021), pp. 49-54.
               230.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani (May 20, 2022), pp. 157-59; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Sidney Powell,
                  (May 7, 2022), pp. 102-03; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Jenna Ellis Production), J.007465Ellis,
                  J.007467Ellis (December 28-29, 2020, emails with Katherine Freiss, Doug Mastriano,
                  Christina Bobb, Giuliani, and others about accessing voting machines); Emma Brown
                  and Jon Swaine, Inside the Secretive Effort by Trump Allies to Access Voting Machines,
                  Washington Post, (Oct. 28, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/2022/10/28/coffee-county-georgia-voting-trump/.
               231.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               232.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               233.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-rally-speech-transcript-dalton-georgia-senate-runoff-election.
               234.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-rally-speech-transcript-dalton-georgia-senate-runoff-election. 
               235.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022),
                  p. 111. 
               236.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022),
                  p. 166.
               237.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Bernard Kerik (Jan.
                  13, 2022), p. 182. Kerik also emailed President Trumps chief of staff, Mark Meadows,
                  on December 28, 2020, writing: We can do all the investigations we want later, but
                  if the president plans on winning, its the legislators that have to be moved, and
                  this will do just that. Document on file with the Select Committee (National Archives
                  Production) 076P-R000004125_0001.
               238.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Christina Bobb, (Apr.
                  21, 2022), p. 46.
               239.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Sidney Powell, (May 7, 2022),
                  pp. 89-96.
               240.  Defendants Motion to Dismiss at 27-28, U.S. Dominion, Inc. v. Powell, No. 1:21-cv-00040 (D.D.C. filed Mar. 22, 2021), ECF No. 22-2.
               241.  Justin Gray, Georgia Election Officials Show Frame-by-Frame What Happened in Fulton
                  Surveillance Video, WSB-TV, (Dec. 4, 2020), https://www.wsbtv.com/news/politics/georgia-election-officials-show-frame-by-frame-what-really-happened-fulton-surveillance-video/T5M3PYIBYFHFFOD3CIB2ULDVDE/.
               242.  11Alive, Second Georgia Senate election hearing, YouTube, at 5:31:50-5:32:45, Dec.
                  3, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRCXUNOwOjw. 
               243.  See, e.g., Donald J. Trump, (@realDonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec. 14, 2020 8:57 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201217181730/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1338483200046354434; Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               244.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               245.  Ryan Taylor, Donald Trump Georgia Rally Transcript Before Senate Runoff Elections
                  December 5, Rev, (Dec. 5, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-georgia-rally-transcript-before-senate-runoff-elections-december-5.
               246.  Donald Trump Vlog: Contesting Election Results  December 22, 2020, Factba.se,
                  (Dec. 22, 2020), at 9:119:31, available at https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-vlog-contesting-election-results-december-22-2020. 
               247.  Ryan Taylor, Donald Trump Georgia Phone Call Transcript with Sec. of State Brad
                  Raffensperger: Says He Wants to Find Votes, Rev, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-georgia-phone-call-transcript-brad-raffensperger-recording. 
               248.  U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Aug.
                  7, 2021), pp. 30-31, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript.pdf. 
               249.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue,
                  (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 42-43. 
               250.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               251.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               252.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               253.  Declaration of Frances Watson at 1-3, Pearson v. Kemp, 831 F. App'x. 467 (N.D. Ga. 2020) (No. 1:20-cv-04809), ECF No. 72-1. 
               254.  Declaration of Frances Watson at 1-3, Pearson v. Kemp, 831 F. App'x. 467 (N.D. Ga. 2020) (No. 1:20-cv-04809), ECF No. 72-1.
               255.  U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, Transcribed Interview of Byung J. BJay Pak, (Aug.
                  11, 2021), pp. 14-25, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Pak%20Transcript.pdf; Response of the Georgia Secretary of State to the Courts Order of September 20,
                  2021 at 4-6, Favorito v. Wan, No. 2020CV343938 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Oct. 12, 2021). 
               256.  Georgia Election Officials Briefing Transcript December 7: Will Recertify Election
                  Results Today, Rev, (December 7, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/georgia-election-officials-briefing-transcript-december-7-will-recertify-election-results-today; Response of the Georgia Secretary of State to the Courts Order of September 20,
                  2021 at 4-6, Favorito v. Wan, No. 2020CV343938 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Oct. 12, 2021). 
               257.  Georgia Election Officials Briefing Transcript December 7: Will Recertify Election
                  Results Today, Rev, (December 7, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/georgia-election-officials-briefing-transcript-december-7-will-recertify-election-results-today; Response of the Georgia Secretary of State to the Courts Order of September 20,
                  2021, at 4-6 and Exhibit A: Videotaped Deposition of James P. Callaway (Deputy Chief
                  Investigator of the Office of the Secretary of State) at 29-35, Favorito v. Wan, No. 2020CV343938 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Oct. 12, 2021) available at, https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/21084096/favorito-sos-brief-in-response-to-order-of-92021-with-exs-a-and-b.pdf.
               258.  Declaration of Frances Watson at 2-3, Pearson v. Kemp, 831 F. App'x. 467 (N.D. Ga. 2020) (No. 1:20-cv-04809), ECF No. 72-1; U.S. Senate
                  Judiciary Committee, Transcribed Interview of Byung J. BJay Pak, (August 11, 2021),
                  pp. 14-25, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Pak%20Transcript.pdf.  
               259.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000004670_0001-0013,
                  076P-R000004888_0001-0013, 076P-R000004948_0001-0013 (January 5, 2021, emails from Molly Michael re: from POTUS to Senators Josh
                  Hawley and Ted Cruz and to Representative Jim Jordan attaching Background Briefing
                  on 2020 Fraud).
               260.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27. 
               261.  In the Matter of Rudolph W. Giuliani, No. 2021-00506, slip op at *2, 22 (N.Y. App. Div. May 3, 2021), available at https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/giuliani-law-license-suspension/1ae5ad6007c0ebfa/full.pdf. 
               262.  GA House Mobile Streaming, Governmental Affairs 12.10.20, Vimeo  Livestream, at
                  2:09:03 to - 2:13:10, available at https://livestream.com/accounts/25225474/events/9117221/videos/214677184. 
               263.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               264.  See John Danforth, Benjamin Ginsberg, Thomas B. Griffith, et al., Lost, Not Stolen: The
                  Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential Election, (July
                  2022), p. 3, available at https://lostnotstolen.org/download/378/.
               265.  Opinion and Order at *6, 13, Costantino v. Detroit, No. 20-014780-AW (Mich. Cty. Cir. Ct. filed Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Costantino-v-Detroit-Opinion-and-Order.pdf. 
               266.  Complaint, Exhibit 2: Affidavit of Jesse Richard Morgan at 2, 10, Mecalfe v. Wolf, 2020 Pa. Commw. LEXIS 794 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 2020) (No. 636 MD 2020), available at
                  https://www.pacourts.us/Storage/media/pdfs/20210603/212420-file-10836.pdf. 
               267.  See, e.g., Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 2:31 p.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201202014959/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1333856259662077954 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 3:49 p.m. ET,
                  available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201201221335/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333875814585282567 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump), Twitter, Dec 2, 2020 6:42 p.m. ET,
                  available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201203024425/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1334327204847775744 (archived).
               268.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 60; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), pp. 45-46.
               269.  FOX News, Sean Hannity, Nov. 19, 2020,  available at https://archive.org/details/FOXNEWSW_20201120_060000_Hannity?start/1983.1.end/2077.5.
               270.  Brandon Waltens, VIDEO: Wagons, Suitcases, and Coolers Roll into Detroit Voting
                  Center at 4 AM [UPDATED], Texas Scorecard, (Nov. 4, 2020), available at https://texasscorecard.com/federal/video-wagons-suitcases-and-coolers-roll-into-detroit-voting-center-at-4-am/; Rudy Giuliani Trump Campaign Press Conference Transcript November 19: Election
                  Fraud Claims, Rev, (Nov. 19, 2020), at 22:29-26:53, available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-trump-campaign-press-conference-transcript-november-19-election-fraud-claims. 
               271.  Affidavit of Christopher Thomas  18, Texas v. Pennsylvania, 592 U.S. ____ (2020) (describing ballot delivery), available at https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/22/22O155/163387/20201210145418055_22O155%20MI%20APP.pdf; see also Opinion and Order at *6, 13, Costantino v. Detroit, No. 20-014780-AW (Mich. Cty. Cir. Ct. filed Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Costantino-v-Detroit-Opinion-and-Order.pdf (relying on Christopher Thomas affidavit to deny a petition for various relief related
                  to allegations that the November 3, 2020 election in Michigan was fraudulent). 
               272.  How a WXYZ Wagon Sparked False Election Fraud Claims in Detroit, WXYZ, (Nov. 5,
                  2020), available at https://www.wxyz.com/news/how-a-wxyz-wagon-sparked-false-election-fraud-claims-in-detroit. 
               273.  Election Summary Report, City of Detroit, (Nov. 19, 2020), available at https://detroitmi.gov/document/november-3-2020-general-election-official-results.
               274.  A canvassing process in every State verifies that the number of voters indicated
                  as having voted matches the number of ballots cast. If, as claimed, tens of thousands
                  of illegitimate ballots were counted at the TCF Center in Detroit, the total number
                  of ballots counted would be substantially higher than the total number of voters who
                  voted, but in Detroit slightly fewer ballots were counted than voters who were listed
                  as having voted. The net number of ballots for the City of Detroit counting boards
                  was 21 more names than ballots, out of approximately 174,000 absentee votes cast.
                  Michigan Secretary of State, Audits of the November 3, 2020 General Election, (Apr.
                  21, 2021), p. 20, available at https://www.michigan.gov/-/media/Project/Websites/sos/30lawens/BOE_2020_Post_Election_Audit_Report_04_21_21.pdf?rev=a3c7ee8c06984864870c540a266177f2.
               275.  Approximately 4.2 million ballots were cast in-person on election day and 2.6 million
                  mail and absentee ballots were cast. See Pennsylvanias Election Stats, Pennsylvania Department of State, (accessed Dec.
                  4, 2022), available at https://www.dos.pa.gov/VotingElections/BEST/Pages/BEST-Election-Stats.aspx;Official Returns  2020 Presidential Election, Pennsylvania Department of State,
                  (accessed Dec. 4, 2022), available at https://www.electionreturns.pa.gov/General/SummaryResults?ElectionID=83&amp;ElectionType=G&amp;IsActive=0.
               276.  Donald J. Trump, (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 28, 2020 12:09 a.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201128080915/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1332552283553476608 (archived), retweeting Senator Doug Mastriano (@SenMastriano), Twitter, Nov. 27,
                  2020, 1:59 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SenMastriano/status/1332398733401591808.
               277.  Jessica Calefati, Fact-Checking False Claims about Pennsylvanias Presidential Election
                  by Trump and His Allies, Philadelphia Inquirer, (Dec. 7, 2020), available at https://www.inquirer.com/politics/election/pennsylvania-election-results-trump-fraud-fact-check-20201206.html. 
               278.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 28, 2020, 4:00 p.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201228211304/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1343663159085834248 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 29, 2020, 8:59 a.m.
                  ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201229205204/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1343919651336712199 (archived); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 29, 2020, 5:55 p.m.
                  ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201229225512/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1344054358418345985. Note that timestamps in archived tweets may reflect a time zone different from that
                  where the tweet originated.
               279.  See Pennsylvania House Republican Caucus, PA Lawmakers: Numbers Dont Add Up, Certification
                  of Presidential Results Premature and In Error, (Dec. 28, 2020), available at https://www.pahousegop.com/News/18754/Latest-News/PA-Lawmakers-Numbers-Don%E2%80%99t-Add-Up,-Certification-of-Presidential-Results-Premature-and-In-Error. Representative Ryan also promoted the groundless claim of an unexplained discrepancy
                  of 400,000 mail-in ballots in the states database, which was based entirely on his
                  ignorance of the fact that the database in question accounts for mail-in ballots and
                  absentee ballots separately. Senate Committee on Homeland Security &amp; Governmental
                  Affairs, Examining Irregularities in the 2020 Election, (Dec. 16, 2020), Written Testimony
                  of Pennsylvania State Representative Frank Ryan, available at https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Testimony-Ryan-2020-12-16.pdf; Senate Committee on Homeland Security &amp; Governmental Affairs, Examining Irregularities
                  in the 2020 Election, (Dec. 16, 2020), Letter Submitted by Pennsylvania Secretary of the Commonwealth Kathy Boockvar, available
                  at https://www.dos.pa.gov/about-us/Documents/statements/2020-12-16-Senator-Johnson-and-Peters.pdf. 
               280.  Dept. of State: Republicans Election Claims Are Repeatedly Debunked Conspiracy
                  Theories, WJAC-TV, (Dec. 29, 2020), available at https://wjactv.com/news/local/dept-of-state-republicans-election-claims-are-repeatedly-debunked-conspiracy-theories.
               281.  Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Richard Donoghue, (Aug.
                  6, 2021), p. 156, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Donoghue%20Transcript.pdf. 
               282.  See Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), at 58:09, available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-rally-speech-transcript-dalton-georgia-senate-runoff-election; Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press (January 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               283.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), p. 29; Affidavit of Russell
                  James Ramsland, Jr., 556 F. Supp. 3d. 680, 724 (E.D. Mich. 2021), ECF 6-24, available
                  at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18693929/6/24/king-v-whitmer/. Ramsland submitted a similar affidavit in a case in Georgia. See Affidavit of Russell Ramsland, Wood v. Raffensperger, 501 F. Supp. 3d 1310 (N.D. Ga. 2020), ECF No. 7-1. 
               284.  Affidavit of Russell Ramsland, Wood v. Raffensperger, 501 F. Supp. 3d 1310 (N.D. Ga. 2020), ECF No. 7-1. 
               285.  Aaron Blake, The Trump Campaigns Much-Hyped Affidavit Features a Big, Glaring Error,
                  Washington Post, (Nov. 20, 2020), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/11/20/trump-campaigns-much-hyped-affidavit-features-big-glaring-error/.
               286.  For example, Ramsland claimed 781.91% turnout in North Muskegon (actual turnout:
                  77.78%); 460.51% turnout in Zeeland Charter Township (actual turnout: 80.11%); and
                  139.29% turnout in Detroit (actual turnout: 50.88%). See King v. Whitmer, 556 F. Supp. 3d. 680, 724 (E.D. Mich. 2021); Michigan Senate Oversight Committee,
                  Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf.
               287.  See, e.g., Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2 Rev (Dec. 2,
                  2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 3, 2020, 4:11 p.m. ET, available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201203211154/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1334606278388277253 (archived); Trump Lawyers Rudy Giuliani &amp; Jenna Ellis Testify Before Michigan House
                  Oversight Committee: Full Transcript, Rev, (Dec. 3, 2020), at 26:13, available at
                  https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/trump-lawyers-rudy-giuliani-jenna-ellis-testify-before-michigan-house-oversight-committee-transcript; Affidavit of Mellissa A. Carone, King v. Whitmer, 505 F. Supp. 3d 720 (E.D. Mich. 2020), ECF No. 1-5, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18693929/1/5/king-v-whitmer/.
               288.  See, e.g., Opinion and Order at *3, 12-13, Costantino v. Detroit, No. 20-014780-AW (Mich. Cty. Cir. Ct. filed Nov. 13, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Costantino-v-Detroit-Opinion-and-Order.pdf; Affidavit of Christopher Thomas  2-18, Texas v. Pennsylvania, 592 U.S. ____ (2020) (describing his experience and the process for tabulating votes),
                  available at https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/22/22O155/163387/20201210145418055_22O155%20MI%20APP.pdf.
               289.  See, e.g., Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press (January 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; Rudy Giulianis Common Sense, I CANT SAY THIS On National Television | Rudy Giuliani
                  | Ep. 98, Rumble, at 13:1013:25, Dec. 30, 2020, available at https://rumble.com/vex72l-i-cant-say-this-on-national-television-rudy-giuliani-ep.-98.html.
               290.  Right Side Broadcasting Network, LIVE: Georgia House Hearing on Election Fraud,
                  Brad Raffensperger to Participate 12/23/20, YouTube, at 27:28, 43:02-43:28, Dec.
                  23, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R4cuakECmuA&amp;t=2582s (Testimony of Ryan Germany, counsel to Georgia Secretary of State, before Georgia
                  legislature stating: The total number of underage people who voted is zero. We were
                  able to look at everyone who voted and look at their birthdate in the voter registration
                  system, and I think there was four people who requested a ballot before they turned
                  18, and they all turned 18 prior to November 3rd, which means theyre allowed to vote.).
               291.  See, e.g. Bannons War Room, Episode 980  The Border Tipping Point  Peter Navarro on the
                  Stolen Election and Desperation in Del Rio, Rumble, May 27, 2021, available at https://rumble.com/vhpam3-episode-980the-border-tipping-pointpeter-navarro-on-the-stolen-election-and.html; Bannons War Room, Episode 979  The HQ of the Runaway Train  Rachel Maddows
                  Anna Karenina Moment, Rumble, May 27, 2021, available at https://rumble.com/vhp8yn-episode-979-the-hq-of-the-runaway-train-rachel-maddows-anna-karenina-moment.html;
                  Right Side Broadcasting Network, LIVE: Arizona State Legislature Holds Public Hearing
                  on 2020 Election, YouTube, at 2:06:33-2:07:02, Nov. 30, 2020, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rri6flxaXww. 
               292.  Proof of Citizenship Requirements, Arizona Secretary of State, (accessed Dec. 4,
                  2022), available at https://azsos.gov/elections/voting-election/proof-citizenship-requirements. In 2013, the Supreme Court struck down Arizonas evidence-of-citizenship requirement
                  as applied to federal elections. See Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona, Inc., 570 U.S. 1, 4, 19 (2013). Arizona law allows voters to register as federal only
                  voters without proof of citizenship, but those voters must provide a drivers license
                  or Social Security Number, which is then checked by election officials against immigration
                  records before the person is added to voter registration rolls. Daniel Gonzlez, Are
                  Undocumented Immigrants Voting Illegally in Arizona?, Arizona Republic, (Oct. 27, 2016), available at https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2016/10/27/voter-fraud-undocumented-immigrants-voting-illegally-arizona-donald-trump/91703916/. 
               293.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Mark Meadows Production), MM007288, (November 13, 2020,
                  email from Bill Stepien to Mark Meadows, Justin Clark, and Jason Miller re: AZ Federal
                  ID Voters); In the Matter of Rudolph W. Giuliani, No. 2021-00506, slip op at *23-25 (N.Y. App. Div. May 3, 2021), available at https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/giuliani-law-license-suspension/1ae5ad6007c0ebfa/full.pdf. 
               294.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript);  Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between
                  Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html. 
               295.  For example, the President alleged in his January 6th speech that large numbers of
                  ballots were cast on behalf of dead people not just in Georgia but also in Michigan,
                  Nevada, and Pennsylvania.   Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press
                  (January 13, 2021),  https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; See also Rudy Giulianis Common Sense, I CANT SAY THIS On National Television | Rudy Giuliani
                  | Ep. 98, Rumble, at 15:10-15:46, (Dec. 30, 2020, reposted Mar. 22, 2021), available
                  at https://rumble.com/vex72l-i-cant-say-this-on-national-television-rudy-giuliani-ep.-98.html (making similar claims).
               296.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Alex Cannon Production) AC-0013946, (November 12, 2020,
                  email from Alex Cannon to Matt Wolking, Zach Parkinson, Tim Murtaugh, Ali Pardo, Matthew
                  Morgan, and Andrew Clark titled Re: dead voters); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (Tim
                  Murtaugh Production) XXM-0009451 (November 8, 2020, email from Jason Miller to Zach
                  Parkinson, Tim Murtaugh, and Matt Wolking re: PA Death Data stating that quality control
                  checks will significantly decrease[] the number of possible dead voters), XXM-0009467
                  (November 8, 2020, email from Jason Miller to Zach Parkinson, Tim Murtaugh, and Matt
                  Wolking re: GA Dead Voters), XXM-0009566 (November 9, 2020 email from Zach Parkinson
                  to Jason Miller, Tim Murtaugh, and Matt Wolking re  PA Death Data noting there may
                  be errors with their data about people who were dead voters); Mark Niesse, Alleged
                  Dead Georgia Voters Found Alive and Well after 2020 Election, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, (Dec. 27, 2021), available at https://www.ajc.com/politics/alleged-dead-georgia-voters-found-alive-and-well-after-2020-election/DAL3VY7NFNHL5OREMHD7QECOCA/. 
               297.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), TEXT0000198, (December
                  3, 2020, text message from Eric Herschmann to Mark Meadows).
               298.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), TEXT0000198-203, (December
                  3, 2020, text messages between Eric Herschmann and Mark Meadows).
               299.  Final Order at 5-6, Boland v. Raffensperger, No.2020CV343018 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 14 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Boland-v-Raffensperger-Order-Dismissing-Complaint.pdf. 
               300.  The expert, Bryan Geels, based his claims on a comparison of public voter information
                  to public death records. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the U.S. Capitol (Christina Bobb Production), BOBB_CONG_00000683-84, 692-93, 706-07
                  (Affidavit of Bryan Geels dated Dec. 1, 2020, in Trump v. Barron, a case filed by the Trump Campaign in a Georgia Superior Court in Fulton County).
                  However, the records reviewed included only name and year of birth for each individual
                  listed. Id. at  28. Based on this limited information, it was impossible for Geels (or anyone
                  else) to conclude that the person with a particular name and birth year was the same
                  person listed in public death records with that name and birth year. See id., at  50 (only the Secretary of State has the information to conduct a full analysis
                  of this issue); see also Declaration of Charles Stewart III at 22, Trump v. Raffensperger, No. 2020CV33255 (Ga. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 14, 2020).
               301.  In Georgia, the Secretary of State found four cases where people voted in the names
                  of deceased individuals. Mark Niesse, Alleged Dead Georgia Voters Found Alive and
                  Well after 2020 Election, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, (Dec. 27, 2021), available at https://www.ajc.com/politics/alleged-dead-georgia-voters-found-alive-and-well-after-2020-election/DAL3VY7NFNHL5OREMHD7QECOCA/; In Arizona, the Attorney General recently concluded its investigation into claims
                  of supposed dead voters in the 2020 election and found only one instance in which
                  a vote was cast on behalf of a person who died prior to the election. Mark Brnovich,
                  Arizona Attorney General to The Honorable Karen Fann, Arizona Senate President, (Aug.
                  1, 2022), available at https://www.azag.gov/sites/default/files/2022-08/Letter%20to%20Fann%20-%20EIU%20Update%20080122.pdf.  In Michigan, the Senate Oversight Committee found only two instances in which votes
                  were cast in the names of dead people: one was a clerical error (poll worker attributed
                  vote to deceased father of person with same name residing at same address) and the
                  other was a woman who died four days before the election but had sent in her absentee
                  ballot before her death. Michigan Senate Oversight Committee, Report on the November 2020 Election in Michigan, (June 23, 2021), available at https://misenategopcdn.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/99/doccuments/20210623/SMPO_2020ElectionReport_2.pdf. 
               302.  In an email obtained by the Select Committee, Katherine Friess, a lawyer who worked
                  closely with Giuliani, shared this information with Giuliani and noted, I dont think
                  this makes a particularly strong case. Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol (Christina Bobb Production),
                  BOBB_CONG_00000621 (January 4, 2021, email from Katherine Friess re: Chairman Graham
                  dead votes memo for your consideration).
               303.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the U.S. Capitol (Cleta Mitchell Production), CM00026036 (January 5, 2021 email
                  from Cleta Mitchell to Richard Perry re: GA Data request by Senator Graham); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S.
                  Capitol (Christina Bobb Production), BOBB_CONG_00000621 (January 4, 2021, email from
                  Katherine Friess re: Chairman Graham dead votes memo for your consideration); Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Christina Bobb, (Apr. 21, 2022), pp. 141-42.
               304.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the U.S. Capitol (Christina Bobb Production), BOBB_CONG_00000621 (January 4, 2021,
                  email from Katherine Friess re: Chairman Graham dead votes memo for your consideration).
               305.  ABC News, Lindsey Graham Delivers Remarks on Capitol Breach, YouTube, at 3:05-3:30,
                  Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKHkYlRm_XM. 
               306.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Chapman University Production), Chapman060742, (Dec.
                  31, 2020 email from John Eastman to Alex Kaufman and Kurth Hibert); see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008384_0001
                  (December 31, 2020, email from Eric Herschmann to Cleta Mitchell and cced to Mark
                  Meadows and Molly Michael in which Herschmann wrote: I was concerned about the President
                  signing a verification about facts that may not be sustainable upon detailed scrutiny.).
               307.  Order Re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 17, Eastman v. Thompson, No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC_DFM, (Oct. 19, 2022), ECF no. 372, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/62613089/372/john-c-eastman-v-bennie-g-thompson/.
               308.  Order Re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 17, Eastman v. Thompson, Case 8:22-cv-00099-DOC_DFM, (Oct. 19, 2022), ECF no. 372, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/62613089/372/john-c-eastman-v-bennie-g-thompson/. 
               309.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               310.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               311.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               312.  See Donald Trump 2020 Election Night Speech Transcript, Rev, (Nov. 4, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript. 
               313.  See Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6.
               314.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               315.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020, 1:42 a.m. ET, available
                  at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22wild+protest%22 (archived).
               316.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               317.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
            
         
         
         
            
                  Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images
