            Executive Summary
            
            On October 31, 2022, in a Federal courthouse in Washington, DC, Graydon Young testified
               against Stewart Rhodes and other members of the Oath Keepers militia group. The defendants
               had been charged with seditious conspiracy against the United States and other crimes
               related to the January 6, 2021, attack on Congress.1 
            In his testimony that day, Young explained to the jury how he and other Oath Keepers
               were provoked to travel to Washington by President Donald Trumps tweets and by Trumps
               false claims that the 2020 Presidential election was stolen from him.2  And, in emotional testimony, Young acknowledged what he and others believed they
               were doing on January 6th:  attacking Congress in the manner the French had attacked
               the Bastille at the outset of the French Revolution.3  Reflecting on that day more than a year and half later, Young testified:
            Prosecutor:  And so how do you feel about the fact that you were pushing towards a
               line of police officers?
            Young:  Today I feel extremely ashamed and embarrassed. . . .
            Prosecutor:  How did you feel at the time?
            Young:  I felt like, again, we were continuing in some kind of historical event to
               achieve a goal.
            * * *
            Prosecutor:  Looking back now almost two years later, what would that make you as
               someone who was coming to D.C. to fight against the government?
            Young:  I guess I was [acting] like a traitor, somebody against my own government.4
            Youngs testimony was dramatic, but not unique.  Many participants in the attack on
               the Capitol acknowledged that they had betrayed their own country:
            
               Reimler: And Im sorry to the people of this country for threatening the democracy
                  that makes this country so great . . . My participation in the events that day were
                  part of an attack on the rule of law.5
               Pert: I know that the peaceful transition of power is to ensure the common good for
                  our nation and that it is critical in protecting our countrys security needs.  I
                  am truly sorry for my part and accept full responsibility for my actions.6 
               Markofski: My actions put me on the other side of the line from my brothers in the
                  Army.  The wrong side.  Had I lived in the area, I would have been called up to defend
                  the Capitol and restore order . . . My actions brought dishonor to my beloved U.S.
                  Army National Guard.7
               Witcher: Every memberevery male member of my family has served in the military,
                  in the Marine Corps, and most have saw combat.  And I cast a shadow and cast embarrassment
                  upon my family name and that legacy.8
               Edwards: I am ashamed to be for the first time in my 68 years, standing before a
                  judge, having pleaded guilty to committing a crime, ashamed to be associated with
                  an attack on the United States Capitol, a symbol of American democracy and greatness
                  that means a great deal to me.9  
            
            
                  Protestors gather at the Capitol.
                  (Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty Images)
               
            
            Hundreds of other participants in the January 6th attack have pleaded guilty, been
               convicted, or await trial for crimes related to their actions that day.  And, like
               Young, hundreds of others have acknowledged exactly what provoked them to travel to
               Washington, and to engage in violence. For example:
            
               Ronald Sandlin, who threatened police officers in the Capitol saying, [y]oure going
                  to die, posted on December 23, 2020: Im going to be there to show support for our
                  president and to do my part to stop the steal and stand behind Trump when he decides
                  to cross the rubicon.  If you are a patriot I believe its your duty to be there.
                  I see it as my civic responsibility.10
               Garret Miller, who brought a gun to the Capitol on January 6th, explained: I was
                  in Washington, D.C. on January 6, 2021, because I believed I was following the instructions
                  of former President Trump and he was my president and the commander-in-chief. His
                  statements also had me believing the election was stolen from him.11
               John Douglas Wright explained that he brought busloads of people to Washington, DC,
                  on January 6th because [Trump] called me there, and he laid out what is happening
                  in our government.12
               Lewis Cantwell  testified: If the President of the United States . . . [is] out on
                  TV telling the world that it was stolen, what else would I believe, as a patriotic
                  American who voted for him and wants to continue to see the country thrive as I thought
                  it was?13
               Likewise, Stephen Ayres testified that with everything the President was putting
                  out ahead of January 6th that the election was rigged . . . the votes were wrong
                  and stuff. . . it just got into my head. The President [was] calling on us to come
                  to Washington, DC. 14  Ayres was hanging on every word he [President Trump] was saying15 Ayres posted that Civil War will ensue if President Trump did not stay in power
                  after January 6th.16 
            
            The Committee has compiled hundreds of similar statements from participants in the
               January 6th attack.17  
            House Resolution 503 instructed the Select Committee to investigate and report upon
               the facts, circumstances, and causes relating to the January 6, 2021, domestic terrorist
               attack upon the United States Capitol Complex and to issue a final report containing
               findings, conclusions, and recommendations for corrective measures.  The Select
               Committee has conducted nine public hearings, presenting testimony from more than
               70 witnesses.  In structuring our investigation and hearings, we began with President
               Trumps contentions that the election was stolen and took testimony from nearly all
               of the Presidents principal advisors on this topic.  We focused on the rulings of
               more than 60 Federal and State courts rejecting President Trumps and his supporters
               efforts to reverse the electoral outcome.  
            Despite the rulings of these courts, we understood that millions of Americans still
               lack the information necessary to understand and evaluate what President Trump has
               told them about the election.  For that reason, our hearings featured a number of
               members of President Trumps inner circle refuting his fraud claims and testifying
               that the election was not in fact stolen.  In all, the Committee displayed the testimony of more than four
               dozen Republicansby far the majority of witnesses in our hearingsincluding two of
               President Trumps former Attorneys General, his former White House Counsel, numerous
               members of his White House staff, and the highest-ranking members of his 2020 election
               campaign, including his campaign manager and his campaign general counsel.  Even key
               individuals who worked closely with President Trump to try to overturn the 2020 election
               on January 6th ultimately admitted that they lacked actual evidence sufficient to change the election result, and they
               admitted that what they were attempting was unlawful.18
            This Report supplies an immense volume of information and testimony assembled through
               the Select Committees investigation, including information obtained following litigation
               in Federal district and appellate courts, as well as in the U.S. Supreme Court.  Based
               upon this assembled evidence, the Committee has reached a series of specific findings,19 including the following:
            
                Beginning election night and continuing through January 6th and thereafter, Donald
                  Trump purposely disseminated false allegations of fraud related to the 2020 Presidential
                  election in order to aid his effort to overturn the election and for purposes of soliciting
                  contributions.  These false claims provoked his supporters to violence on January
                  6th.
                Knowing that he and his supporters had lost dozens of election lawsuits, and despite
                  his own senior advisors refuting his election fraud claims and urging him to concede
                  his election loss, Donald Trump refused to accept the lawful result of the 2020 election.
                  Rather than honor his constitutional obligation to take Care that the Laws be faithfully
                  executed, President Trump instead plotted to overturn the election outcome.
                Despite knowing that such an action would be illegal, and that no State had or would
                  submit an altered electoral slate, Donald Trump corruptly pressured Vice President
                  Mike Pence to refuse to count electoral votes during Congresss joint session on January
                  6th.  
                Donald Trump sought to corrupt the U.S. Department of Justice by attempting to enlist
                  Department officials to make purposely false statements and thereby aid his effort
                  to overturn the Presidential election.  After that effort failed, Donald Trump offered
                  the position of Acting Attorney General to Jeff Clark knowing that Clark intended
                  to disseminate false information aimed at overturning the election.
                Without any evidentiary basis and contrary to State and Federal law, Donald Trump
                  unlawfully pressured State officials and legislators to change the results of the
                  election in their States.
                Donald Trump oversaw an effort to obtain and transmit false electoral certificates
                  to Congress and the National Archives.
                Donald Trump pressured Members of Congress to object to valid slates of electors from
                  several States.
                Donald Trump purposely verified false information filed in Federal court.
                Based on false allegations that the election was stolen, Donald Trump summoned tens
                  of thousands of supporters to Washington for January 6th.  Although these supporters
                  were angry and some were armed, Donald Trump instructed them to march to the Capitol
                  on January 6th to take back their country.
                Knowing that a violent attack on the Capitol was underway and knowing that his words
                  would incite further violence, Donald Trump purposely sent a social media message
                  publicly condemning Vice President Pence at 2:24 p.m. on January 6th.
                Knowing that violence was underway at the Capitol, and despite his duty to ensure
                  that the laws are faithfully executed, Donald Trump refused repeated requests over
                  a multiple hour period that he instruct his violent supporters to disperse and leave
                  the Capitol, and instead watched the violent attack unfold on television.  This failure
                  to act perpetuated the violence at the Capitol and obstructed Congresss proceeding
                  to count electoral votes.
                Each of these actions by Donald Trump was taken in support of a multi-part conspiracy
                  to overturn the lawful results of the 2020 Presidential election.
                The intelligence community and law enforcement agencies did successfully detect the
                  planning for potential violence on January 6th, including planning specifically by
                  the Proud Boys and Oath Keeper militia groups who ultimately led the attack on the
                  Capitol.  As January 6th approached, the intelligence specifically identified the
                  potential for violence at the U.S. Capitol.  This intelligence was shared within the
                  executive branch, including with the Secret Service and the Presidents National Security
                  Council.
                Intelligence gathered in advance of January 6th did not support a conclusion that
                  Antifa or other left-wing groups would likely engage in a violent counter-demonstration,
                  or attack Trump supporters on January 6th.  Indeed, intelligence from January 5th
                  indicated that some left-wing groups were instructing their members to stay at home
                  and not attend on January 6th.20  Ultimately, none of these groups was involved to any material extent with the attack
                  on the Capitol on January 6th.  
                Neither the intelligence community nor law enforcement obtained intelligence in advance
                  of January 6th on the full extent of the ongoing planning by President Trump, John
                  Eastman, Rudolph Giuliani and their associates to overturn the certified election
                  results.  Such agencies apparently did not (and potentially could not) anticipate
                  the provocation President Trump would offer the crowd in his Ellipse speech, that
                  President Trump would spontaneously instruct the crowd to march to the Capitol,
                  that President Trump would exacerbate the violent riot by sending his 2:24 p.m. tweet
                  condemning Vice President Pence, or the full scale of the violence and lawlessness
                  that would ensue.  Nor did law enforcement anticipate that President Trump would refuse
                  to direct his supporters to leave the Capitol once violence began.  No intelligence
                  community advance analysis predicted exactly how President Trump would behave; no
                  such analysis recognized the full scale and extent of the threat to the Capitol on
                  January 6th.
                Hundreds of Capitol and DC Metropolitan police officers performed their duties bravely
                  on January 6th, and America owes those individuals immense gratitude for their courage
                  in the defense of Congress and our Constitution.  Without their bravery, January 6th
                  would have been far worse.  Although certain members of the Capitol Police leadership
                  regarded their approach to January 6th as all hands on deck, the Capitol Police
                  leadership did not have sufficient assets in place to address the violent and lawless
                  crowd.21  Capitol Police leadership did not anticipate the scale of the violence that would
                  ensue after President Trump instructed tens of thousands of his supporters in the
                  Ellipse crowd to march to the Capitol, and then tweeted at 2:24 p.m.  Although Chief
                  Steven Sund raised the idea of National Guard support, the Capitol Police Board did
                  not request Guard assistance prior to January 6th.  The Metropolitan Police took an
                  even more proactive approach to January 6th, and deployed roughly 800 officers, including
                  responding to the emergency calls for help at the Capitol.  Rioters still managed
                  to break their line in certain locations, when the crowd surged forward in the immediate
                  aftermath of Donald Trumps 2:24 p.m. tweet.  The Department of Justice readied a
                  group of Federal agents at Quantico and in the District of Columbia, anticipating
                  that January 6th could become violent, and then deployed those agents once it became
                  clear that police at the Capitol were overwhelmed.  Agents from the Department of
                  Homeland Security were also deployed to assist. 
                President Trump had authority and responsibility to direct deployment of the National
                  Guard in the District of Columbia, but never gave any order to deploy the National
                  Guard on January 6th or on any other day.  Nor did he instruct any Federal law enforcement
                  agency to assist.  Because the authority to deploy the National Guard had been delegated
                  to the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense could, and ultimately did deploy
                  the Guard.  Although evidence identifies a likely miscommunication between members
                  of the civilian leadership in the Department of Defense impacting the timing of deployment,
                  the Committee has found no evidence that the Department of Defense intentionally delayed
                  deployment of the National Guard.  The Select Committee recognizes that some at the
                  Department had genuine concerns, counseling caution, that President Trump might give
                  an illegal order to use the military in support of his efforts to overturn the election.
                  
            
            ***
            This Report begins with a factual overview framing each of these conclusions and summarizing
               what our investigation found.  That overview is in turn supported by eight chapters
               identifying the very specific evidence of each of the principal elements of President
               Trumps multi-part plan to overturn the election, along with evidence regarding intelligence
               gathered before January 6th and security shortfalls that day. 
            Although the Committees hearings were viewed live by tens of millions of Americans
               and widely publicized in nearly every major news source,22 the Committee also recognizes that other news outlets and commentators have actively
               discouraged viewers from watching, and that millions of other Americans have not yet
               seen the actual evidence addressed by this Report.  Accordingly, the Committee is
               also releasing video summaries of relevant evidence on each major topic investigated.
            This Report also examines the legal implications of Donald Trump and his co-conspirators
               conduct and includes criminal referrals to the Department of Justice regarding President
               Trump and certain other individuals.  The criminal referrals build upon three relevant
               rulings issued by a Federal district court and explain in detail how the facts found
               support further evaluation by the Department of Justice of specific criminal charges.
               To assist the public in understanding the nature and importance of this material,
               this Report also contains sections identifying how the Committee has evaluated the
               credibility of its witnesses and suggests that the Department of Justice further examine
               possible efforts to obstruct our investigation.  We also note that more than 30 witnesses
               invoked their Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, others invoked
               Executive Privilege or categorically refused to appear (including Steve Bannon, who
               has since been convicted of contempt of Congress).   
            Finally, this report identifies a series of legislative recommendations, including
               the Presidential Election Reform Act, which has already passed the House of Representatives.
            Executive Summary:  Overview of the Evidence Developed
            In the Committees hearings, we presented evidence of what ultimately became a multi-part
               plan to overturn the 2020 Presidential election.  That evidence has led to an overriding
               and straightforward conclusion:  the central cause of January 6th was one man, former
               President Donald Trump, whom many others followed.  None of the events of January
               6th would have happened without him.  
            The Big Lie
            In the weeks before election day 2020, Donald Trumps campaign experts, including
               his campaign manager Bill Stepien, advised him that the election results would not
               be fully known on election night.23  This was because certain States would not begin to count absentee and other mail-in
               votes until election day or after election-day polls had closed.24  Because Republican voters tend to vote in greater numbers on election day and Democratic
               voters tend to vote in greater numbers in advance of election day, it was widely anticipated
               that Donald Trump could initially appear to have a lead, but that the continued counting
               of mail-in, absentee and other votes beginning election night would erode and could
               overcome that perceived lead.25  Thus, as President Trumps campaign manager cautioned, understanding the results
               of the 2020 election would be a lengthy process, and an initial appearance of a
               Trump lead could be a red mirage.26  This was not unique to the 2020 election; similar scenarios had played out in prior
               elections as well.27
            Prior to the 2020 election, Donald Trumps campaign manager Bill Stepien, along with
               House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, urged President Trump to embrace mail-in voting
               as potentially beneficial to the Trump Campaign.28  Presidential advisor and son-in-law Jared Kushner recounted others giving Donald
               Trump the same advice:  [M]ail in ballots could be a good thing for us if we looked
               at it correctly.29  Multiple States, including Florida, had successfully utilized mail-in voting in
               prior elections, and in 2020.30  Trump White House Counselor Hope Hicks testified: I think he [President Trump]
               understood that a lot of people vote via absentee ballot in places like Florida and
               have for a long time and that its worked fine.31  Donald Trump won in numerous States that allowed no-excuse absentee voting in 2020,
               including Alaska, Florida, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota,
               Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Wyoming.32
            On election night 2020, the election returns were reported in almost exactly the way
               that Stepien and other Trump Campaign experts predicted, with the counting of mail-in
               and absentee ballots gradually diminishing President Trumps perceived lead.  As the
               evening progressed, President Trump called in his campaign team to discuss the results.
               Stepien and other campaign experts advised him that the results of the election would
               not be known for some time, and that he could not truthfully declare victory.33  It was far too early to be making any calls like that.  Ballotsballots were still
               being counted.  Ballots were still going to be counted for days.34  
            Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller told the Select Committee that he argued against
               declaring victory at that time as well, because it was too early to say one way [or]
               the other who had won.35   Stepien advised Trump to say that votes were still being counted.  Its too early
               to tell, too early to call the race but, you know, we are proud of the race we runwe
               ran and we, you know, think werethink were in a good position and would say more
               in the coming days.36  
            President Trump refused, and instead said this in his public remarks that evening:
               This is a fraud on the American public.  This is an embarrassment to our country.
               We were getting ready to win this election.  Frankly, we did win this election.  We
               did win this election . . . . We want all voting to stop.37  And on the morning of November 5th, he tweeted STOP THE COUNT!38  Halting the counting of votes at that point would have violated both State and Federal
               laws.39  
            According to testimony received by the Select Committee, the only advisor present
               who supported President Trumps inclination to declare victory was Rudolph Giuliani,
               who appeared to be inebriated.40  President Trumps Attorney General, William Barr, who had earlier left the election
               night gathering, perceived the Presidents statement this way: 
            [R]ight out of the box on election night, the President claimed that there was major
               fraud underway. I mean, this happened, as far as I could tell, before there was actually
               any potential of looking at evidence. He claimed there was major fraud. And it seemed
               to be based on the dynamic that, at the end of the evening, a lot of Democratic votes
               came in which changed the vote counts in certain States, and that seemed to be the
               basis for this broad claim that there was major fraud. And I didnt think much of
               that, because people had been talking for weeks and everyone understood for weeks
               that that was going to be what happened on election night . . . . 41
            
                  President Trump declares victory in a speech at an election night party.
                  (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
               
            
            President Trumps decision to declare victory falsely on election night and, unlawfully,
               to call for the vote counting to stop, was not a spontaneous decision.  It was premeditated.
               The Committee has assembled a range of evidence of President Trumps preplanning for
               a false declaration of victory.  This includes multiple written communications on
               October 31 and November 3, 2020, to the White House by Judicial Watch President Tom
               Fitton.42  This evidence demonstrates that Fitton was in direct contact with President Trump
               and understood that President Trump would falsely declare victory on election night
               and call for vote counting to stop.  The evidence also includes an audio recording
               of President Trumps advisor Steve Bannon, who said this on October 31, 2020, to a
               group of his associates from China:
            And what Trumps gonna do is just declare victory, right?  Hes gonna declare victory.
               But that doesnt mean hes a winner.  Hes just gonna say hes a winner . . . The
               Democratsmore of our people vote early that count.  Theirs vote in mail.  And so
               theyre gonna have a natural disadvantage, and Trumps going to take advantage of
               itthats our strategy.  Hes gonna declare himself a winner.  So when you wake up
               Wednesday morning, its going to be a firestorm . . . . Also, if Trump, if Trump is
               losing, by 10 or 11 oclock at night, its going to be even crazier.  No, because
               hes gonna sit right there and say They stole it.  Im directing the Attorney General
               to shut down all ballot places in all 50 states.  Its going to be, no, hes not
               going out easy.  If Trumpif Bidens winning, Trump is going to do some crazy shit.43
            Also in advance of the election, Roger Stone, another outside advisor to President
               Trump, made this statement:
            I really do suspect it will still be up in the air.  When that happens, the key thing
               to do is to claim victory.  Possession is nine-tenths of the law.  No, we won.  Fuck
               you, Sorry.  Over.  We won.  Youre wrong.  Fuck you.44
            On election day, Vice President Pences staff, including his Chief of Staff and Counsel,
               became concerned that President Trump might falsely claim victory that evening.  The
               Vice Presidents Counsel, Greg Jacob, testified about their concern that the Vice
               President might be asked improperly to echo such a false statement.45   Jacob drafted a memorandum with this specific recommendation: [I]t is essential
               that the Vice President not be perceived by the public as having decided questions
               concerning disputed electoral votes prior to the full development of all relevant
               facts.46  
            Millions of Americans believed that President Trump was telling the truth on election
               nightthat President Trump actually had proof the election was stolen and that the
               ongoing counting of votes was an act of fraud.
            As votes were being counted in the days after the election, President Trumps senior
               campaign advisors informed him that his chances of success were almost zero. 
            Former Trump Campaign Manager Bill Stepien testified that he had come to this conclusion
               by November 7th, and told President Trump:
            Committee Staff: What was your view on the state of the election at that point?
            Stepien:  You know, very, very, very bleak. You know, Iwe told himthe group that
               went over there outlined, you know, my belief and chances for success at this point.
               And then we pegged that at, you know, 5, maybe 10 percent based on recounts that werethat,
               you know, either were automatically initiated or could becould be initiated based
               on, you know, realistic legal challenges, not all the legal challenges that eventually
               were pursued. But, you know, it wasyou know, my belief is that it was a very, very5
               to 10 percent is not a very good optimistic outlook.47
            Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller testified to the Committee about this exchange:
            Miller:  I was in the Oval Office. And at some point in the conversation Matt Oczkowski,
               who was the lead data person, was brought on, and I remember he delivered to the President
               in pretty blunt terms that he was going to lose.
            Committee Staff: And that was based, Mr. Miller, on Matt and the data teams assessment
               of this sort of county-by-county, State-by-State results as reported?
            Miller: Correct.48
            In one of the Select Committees hearings, former Fox News political editor Chris
               Stirewalt was asked what the chance President Trump had of winning the election after
               November 7th, when the votes were tallied and every news organization had called the
               race for now-President Biden. His response: None.49
            As the Committees hearings demonstrated, President Trump made a series of statements
               to White House staff and others during this time period indicating his understanding
               that he had lost.50  President Trump also took consequential actions reflecting his understanding that
               he would be leaving office on January 20th.  For example, President Trump personally
               signed a Memorandum and Order instructing his Department of Defense to withdraw all
               military forces from Somalia by December 31, 2020, and from Afghanistan by January
               15, 2021.51  General Keith Kellogg (ret.), who had been appointed by President Trump as Chief
               of Staff for the National Security Council and was Vice President Pences National
               Security Advisor on January 6th, told the Select Committee that [a]n immediate departure
               that that memo said would have been catastrophic.  Its the same thing what President
               Biden went through.  It would have been a debacle.52
            In the weeks that followed the election, President Trumps campaign experts and his
               senior Justice Department officials were informing him and others in the White House
               that there was no genuine evidence of fraud sufficient to change the results of the
               election.  For example, former Attorney General  Barr testified:
            And I repeatedly told the President in no uncertain terms that I did not see evidence
               of fraud, you know, that would have affected the outcome of the election. And, frankly,
               a year and a half later, I havent seen anything to change my mind on that.53
            Former Trump Campaign lawyer Alex Cannon, who was asked to oversee incoming information
               about voter fraud and set up a voter fraud tip line, told the Select Committee about
               a pertinent call with White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows in November 2020:  
            Cannon:  So I remember a call with Mr. Meadows where Mr. Meadows was asking me what
               I was finding and if I was finding anything. And I remember sharing with him that
               we werent finding anything that would be sufficient to change the results in any
               of the key States.
            Committee Staff:  When was that conversation?
            Cannon:  Probably in November. Mid- to late November . . . .
            Committee Staff:  And what was Mr. Meadowss reaction to that information?
            Cannon:  I believe the words he used were: So there is no there there?54
            President Trumps Campaign Manager Bill Stepien recalled that President Trump was
               being told wild allegations and that it was the Campaigns job to track [the allegations]
               down:
            Committee Staff:  You said that you were very confident that you were telling the
               President the truth in your dealings with [him]. And had your team been able to verify
               any of these allegations of fraud, would you have reported those to the President?
            Stepien:  Sure.
            Committee Staff:  Did you ever have to report that
            Stepien: One of my frustrations would be that, you know, people would throw out, you
               know, these reports, these allegations, these things that they heard or saw in a State,
               and theyd tell President Trump. And, you know, it would be the campaigns job to
               track down the information, the facts. And, you know, President Trump, you knowif
               someones saying, hey, you know, all these votes arent counted or were miscounted,
               you know, if youre down in a State like Arizona, you liked hearing that. It would
               be our job to track it down and come up dry because the allegation didnt prove to
               be true. And wed have to, you know, relay the news that, yeah, that tip that someone
               told you about those votes or that fraud or, you know, nothing came of it.
            That would be our job as, you know, the truth telling squad and, you know, notnot
               a fun job to be, you know, muchits an easier job to be telling the President about,
               you know, wild allegations. Its a harder job to be telling him on the back end that,
               yeah, that wasnt true.
            Committee Staff:  How did he react to those types of conversations where you [told]
               him that an allegation or another wasnt true?
            Stepien:  He washe hadusually he had pretty clear eyes. Like, he understood, you
               knowyou know, we told him where we thought the race was, and I think he was pretty
               realistic with our viewpoint, in agreement with our viewpoint of kind of the forecast
               and the uphill climb we thought he had.55
            Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller told the Committee that he informed President
               Trump several times that specific to election day fraud and irregularities, there
               were not enough to overturn the election.56
            Vice President Pence has also said publicly that he told President Trump there was
               no basis to allege that the election was stolen.  When a reporter recently asked Did
               you ever point blank say to the President [that] we lost this election?, Pence responded
               that I did . . . Many times.57  Pence has also explained: 
            There was never evidence of widespread fraud. I dont believe fraud changed the outcome
               of the election. But the President and the Campaign had every right to have those
               examined in court. But I told the President that, once those legal challenges played
               out, he should simply accept the outcome of the election and move on.58
            The General Counsel of President Trumps campaign, Matthew Morgan, informed members
               of the White House staff, and likely many others, of the Campaigns conclusion that
               none of the allegations of fraud and irregularities could be sufficient to change
               the outcome of the election:
            What was generally discussed on that topic was whether the fraud, maladministration,
               abuse, or irregularities, if aggregated and read most favorably to the campaign, would
               that be outcome determinative.  And I think everyones assessment in the room, at
               least amongst the staff, Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob, was that it was not sufficient
               to be outcome determinative.59
            In a meeting on November 23rd,  Barr told President Trump that the Justice Department
               was doing its duty by investigating every fraud allegation if its specific, credible,
               and couldve affected the outcome, but that theyre just not meritorious.  Theyre
               not panning out.60
            Barr then told the Associated Press on December 1st that the Department had not seen
               fraud on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.61 Next, he reiterated this point in private meetings with the President both that afternoon
               and on December 14th, as well as in his final press conference as Attorney General
               later that month.62  The Department of Homeland Security had reached a similar determination two weeks
               earlier:  There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes,
                  or was in any way compromised.63
            In addition, multiple other high ranking Justice Department personnel appointed by
               President Trump also informed him repeatedly that the allegations were false.  As
               January 6th drew closer, Acting Attorney General Rosen and Acting Deputy Attorney
               General Donoghue had calls with President Trump on almost a daily basis explaining
               in detail what the Departments investigations showed.64  Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue told the Select Committee that he
               and Acting Attorney General Rosen tried to put it in very clear terms to the President.
               And I said something to the effect of Sir, weve done dozens of investigations, hundreds
               of interviews. The major allegations are not supported by the evidence developed.
               Weve looked in Georgia, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Nevada.  Were doing our job.65  On December 31st,  Donoghue recalls telling the President that people keep telling
               you these things and they turn out not to be true.66  And then on January 3rd,  Donoghue reiterated this point with the President: 
            [A]s in previous conservations, we would say to him, you know, We checked that out,
               and theres nothing to it.67
            Acting Attorney General Rosen testified before the Select Committee that the common
               element of all of his communications with President Trump was President Trump urging
               the Department to find widespread fraud that did not actually exist.  None of the
               Departments investigations identified any genuine fraud sufficient to impact the
               election outcome: 
            During my tenure as the Acting Attorney General, which began on December 24 of [2020],
               the Department of Justice maintained the position, publicly announced by former Attorney
               General William Barr, that the Department had been presented with no evidence of widespread
               voter fraud in a scale sufficient to change the outcome of the 2020 election.68
            As President Trump was hearing from his campaign and his Justice Department that the
               allegations of widespread fraud were not supported by the evidence, his White House
               legal staff also reached the same conclusions, and agreed specifically with what Barr
               told President Trump.  Both White House Counsel Pat Cipollone and White House Senior
               Advisor Eric Herschmann reinforced to President Trump that the Justice Department
               was doing its duty to investigate allegations of supposed voter fraud.69  
            Cipollone told the Select Committee that he had seen no evidence of massive fraud
               in the election and that he forcefully made this point over and over again. 
               For example, during a late-night group meeting with President Trump on December 18th,
               at which he and Herschmann urged Trump not to heed the advice of several election
               conspiracists at the meeting:
            Cipollone: They didnt think that we were, you knowthey didnt think we believed
               this, you know, that there had been massive fraud in the election, and the reason
               they didnt think we believed it is because we didnt.
            Committee Staff: And you articulated that forcefully to them during the meeting?
            Cipollone: I did, yeah.  I had seen no evidence of massive fraud in the election.
               . . . At some point, you have to deliver with the evidence.  And Iagain, I just to
               go back to what [Barr] said, he had not seen and I was not aware of any evidence of
               fraud to the extent that it would change the results of the election.  That was made
               clear to them, okay, over and over again.70
            Similarly, White House Attorney Eric Herschmann was also very clear about his views:
            [T]hey never proved the allegations that they were making, and they were trying to
               develop.71
            In short, President Trump was informed over and over again, by his senior appointees,
               campaign experts and those who had served him for years, that his election fraud allegations
               were nonsense.  
            How did President Trump continue to make false allegations despite all of this unequivocal
               information?  President Trump sought out those who were not scrupulous with the facts,
               and were willing to be dishonest.  He found a new legal team to assert claims that
               his existing advisors and the Justice Department had specifically informed him were
               false.  President Trumps new legal team, headed by Rudolph Giuliani, and their allies
               ultimately lost dozens of election lawsuits in Federal and State courts.  
            The testimony of Trump Campaign Manager Bill Stepien helps to put this series of events
               in perspective.   Stepien described his interaction with  Giuliani as an intentional
               self-demotion, with  Stepien stepping aside once it became clear that President
               Trump intended to spread falsehoods.   
            Stepien knew the Presidents new team was relying on unsupportable accusations, and
               he refused to be associated with their approach: 
            There were two groups of family.  We called them kind of my team and Rudys team.
               I didnt mind being characterized as being part of team normal, as reporters, you
               know, kind of started to do around that point in time.72  
            Having worked for Republican campaigns for over two decades,  Stepien said, I think
               along the way Ive built up a pretty goodI hope a good reputation for being honest
               and professional, and I didnt think what was happening was necessarily honest or
               professional at that point in time.73 
            As Giuliani visited Campaign headquarters to discuss election litigation, the Trump
               Campaigns professional staff began to view him as unhinged.74  In addition, multiple law firms previously engaged to work for the Trump Campaign
               decided that they could not participate in the strategy being instituted by  Giuliani.
               They quit.  Campaign General Counsel Matthew Morgan explained that he had conversations
               with probably all of our counsel who [we]re signed up to assist on election day as
               they disengaged with the campaign.75  The general consensus was that the law firms were not comfortable making the arguments
               that Rudy Giuliani was making publicly.76  When asked how many outside firms expressed this concern,  Morgan recalled having
               a similar conversation with most all of them.77  
            Stepien grew so wary of the new team that he locked  Giuliani out of his office:
            Committee Staff: Yeah. Im getting the sense from listening to you here for a few
               hours that you sort of chose to pull back, that you were uncomfortable with what Mr.
               Giuliani and others were saying and doing and, therefore, you were purposefully stepping
               back from a day-to-day role as the leader of the campaign. Is thatI dont want to
               put words in your mouth. Is that accurate?
            Stepien: Thats accurate. Thats accurate. You know, I had my assistantit was a big
               glass kind of wall office in our headquarters, and I had my assistant lock my door.
               I told her, dont let anyone in. You know, Ill be around when I need to be around.
               You know, tell me what I need to know. Tell me whats going on here, but, you know,
               youre going to see less of me.
            And, you know, sure enough, you know, Mayor Giuliani tried to, you know, get in my
               office and ordered her to unlock the door, and she didnt do that, you know. Shes,
               you know, smart about that. But your words are ones I agree with.78  
            Over the weeks that followed, dozens of judges across the country specifically rejected
               the allegations of fraud and irregularities being advanced by the Trump team and their
               allies.  For example, courts described the arguments as an amalgamation of theories,
               conjecture, and speculation, allegations . . . sorely wanting of relevant or reliable
               evidence, strained legal arguments without merit, assertions that did not prove
               by any standard of proof that any illegal votes were cast and counted, and even a
               fundamental and obvious misreading of the Constitution.79 
            Reflecting back on this period, Trump Campaign Communications Director Tim Murtaugh
               texted colleagues in January 2021 about a news report that the New York State Bar
               was considering expelling Rudolph Giuliani over the Ellipse rally: Why wouldnt they
               expel him based solely on the outrageous lies he told for 2 1/2 months?80
            This is exactly what ultimately came to pass. When suspending his license, a New York
               court said that Giuliani communicated demonstrably false and misleading statements
               to courts, lawmakers and the public at large in his capacity as lawyer for former
               President Donald J. Trump and the Trump campaign in connection with Trumps failed
               effort at reelection in 2020.81 The court added that [t]he seriousness of [Giulianis] uncontroverted misconduct
               cannot be overstated.82 
            Other Trump lawyers were sanctioned for making outlandish claims of election fraud
               without the evidence to back them up, including Sidney Powell, Lin Wood and seven
               other pro-Trump lawyers in a case that a Federal judge described as a historic and
               profound abuse of the judicial process: 
            It is one thing to take on the charge of vindicating rights associated with an allegedly
               fraudulent election. It is another to take on the charge of deceiving a federal court
               and the American people into believing that rights were infringed, without regard
               to whether any laws or rights were in fact violated. This is what happened here.83
            A group of prominent Republicans have more recently issued a reporttitled Lost, Not Stolenexamining every count of every case brought in these six battleground states by
               President Trump and his allies.  The report concludes that Donald Trump and his supporters
               had their day in court and failed to produce substantive evidence to make their case.84  President Trump and his legal allies failed because of a lack of evidence and not
               because of erroneous rulings or unfair judges . . . . In many cases, after making
               extravagant claims of wrongdoing, Trumps legal representatives showed up in court
               or state proceedings empty-handed, and then returned to their rallies and media campaigns
               to repeat the same unsupported claims.85
            There is no reasonable basis for the allegation that these dozens of rulings by State
               and Federal courts were somehow politically motivated.86  The outcome of these suits was uniform regardless of who appointed the judges. 
               One of the authors of Lost, Not Stolen, longtime Republican election lawyer Benjamin Ginsberg, testified before the Select
               Committee that in no instance did a court find that the charges of fraud were real,
               without variation based on the judges involved.87  Indeed, eleven of the judges who ruled against Donald Trump and his supporters were
               appointed by Donald Trump himself.  
            One of those Trump nominees, Judge Stephanos Bibas of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
               the Third Circuit, rejected an appeal by the Trump Campaign claiming that Pennsylvania
               officials did not undertake any meaningful effort to fight illegal absentee ballots
               and uneven treatment of voters across counties.88  Judge Bibas wrote in his decision that calling an election unfair does not make
               it so.  Charges require specific allegations and then proof.  We have neither here.89  Another Trump nominee, Judge Brett Ludwig of the Eastern District of Wisconsin,
               ruled against President Trumps lawsuit alleging that the result was skewed by illegal
               procedures that governed drop boxes, ballot address information, and individuals who
               claimed indefinitely confined status to vote from home.90  Judge Ludwig wrote in his decision, that [t]his Court has allowed plaintiff the
               chance to make his case and he has lost on the merits because the procedures used
               do not remotely rise to the level of breaking Wisconsins election rules.91 
            Nor is it true that these rulings focused solely on standing, or procedural issues.
               As  Ginsberg confirmed in his testimony to the Select Committee, President Trumps
               team did have their day in court.92  Indeed, he and his co-authors determined in their report that 30 of these post-election
               cases were dismissed by a judge after an evidentiary hearing had been held, and many
               of these judges explicitly indicated in their decisions that the evidence presented
               by the plaintiffs was wholly insufficient on the merits.93
            
                  Rudolph Giuliani, Bernard Kerik, and other hold a press conference at Four Seasons
                     Total Landscaping on November 7, 2020 falsely claiming Donald Trump had won the state
                     of Pennsylvania.
                  (Photo by Chris McGrath/Getty Images)
               
            
            Ultimately, even Rudolph Giuliani and his legal team acknowledged that they had no
               definitive evidence of election fraud sufficient to change the election outcome. 
               For example, although  Giuliani repeatedly had claimed in public that Dominion voting
               machines stole the election, he admitted during his Select Committee deposition that
               I do not think the machines stole the election.94  An attorney representing his lead investigator, Bernard Kerik, declared in a letter
               to the Select Committee that it was impossible for Kerik and his team to determine
               conclusively whether there was widespread fraud or whether that widespread fraud would
               have altered the outcome of the election.95  Kerik also emailed President Trumps chief of staff on December 28, 2020, writing:
               We can do all the investigations we want later, but if the president plans on winning,
               its the legislators that have to be moved and this will do just that.96 Other Trump lawyers and supporters, Jenna Ellis, John Eastman, Phil Waldron, and
               Michael Flynn, all invoked their Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination
               when asked by the Select Committee what supposed proof they uncovered that the election
               was stolen.97 Not a single witness--nor any combination of witnesses--provided the Select Committee
               with evidence demonstrating that fraud occurred on a scale even remotely close to
               changing the outcome in any State.98  
            By mid-December 2020, Donald Trump had come to what most of his staff believed was
               the end of the line.  The Supreme Court rejected a lawsuit he supported filed by the
               State of Texas in the Supreme Court, and Donald Trump had this exchange, according
               to Special Assistant to the President Cassidy Hutchinson: 
            The President was fired up about the Supreme Court decision.  And so I was standing
               next to [Chief of Staff Mark] Meadows, but I had stepped back . . . The President
               [was] just raging about the decision and how its wrong, and why didnt we make more
               calls, and just this typical anger outburst at this decision . . . And the President
               said I thinkso he had said something to the effect of, I dont want people to know
               we lost, Mark.  This is embarrassing.  Figure it out.  We need to figure it out. 
               I dont want people to know that we lost.99 
            On December 14, 2020, the Electoral College met to cast and certify each States electoral
               votes.  By this time, many of President Trumps senior staff, and certain members
               of his family, were urging him to concede that he had lost.
            Labor Secretary Gene Scalia told the Committee that he called President Trump around
               this time and gave him such feedback quite directly: 
            [S]o, I had put a call in to the PresidentI might have called on the 13th; we spoke,
               I believe, on the 14thin which I conveyed to him that I thought that it was time
               for him to acknowledge that President Biden had prevailed in the election . . . .
               But I communicated to the President that when that legal process is exhausted and
               when the electors have voted, that thats the point at which that outcome needs to
               be expected . . . . And I told him that I did believe, yes, that once those legal
               processes were run, if fraud had not been established that had affected the outcome
               of the election, that, unfortunately, I believed that what had to be done was concede
               the outcome.100  
            Deputy White House Press Secretary Judd Deere also told President Trump that he should
               concede.  He recalled other staffers advising President Trump at some point to concede
               and that he encouraged him to do it at least once after the electoral college met
               in mid-December.101  White House Counsel Pat Cipollone also believed that President Trump should concede:
               [I]f your question is did I believe he should concede the election at a point in time, yes, I did.102
            Attorney General Barr told the Select Committee this: And in my view, that [the December
               14 electoral college vote] was the end of the matter.  I didnt seeyou know, I thought
               that this would lead inexorably to a new administration.  I was not aware at that
               time of any theory, you know, why this could be reversed.  And so I felt that the
               die was cast . . . .103
            Barr also told the Committee that he suggested several weeks earlier that the Presidents
               efforts in this regard needed to come to an end soon, in conversation with several
               White House officials after his meeting with Trump on November 23rd:
            [A]s I walked out of the Oval Office, Jared was there with Dan Scavino, who ran the
               Presidents social media and who I thought was a reasonable guy and believe is a reasonable
               guy.  And I said, how long is he going to carry on with this stolen election stuff?
               Where is this going to go? 
            And by that time, Meadows had caught up with me andleaving the office, and caught
               up to me and said thathe said, look, I think that hes becoming more realistic and
               knows that theres a limit to how far he can take this. And then Jared said, you know,
               yeah, were working on this, were working on it.104
            Despite all that Donald Trump was being told, he continued to purposely and maliciously
               make false claims.  To understand the very stark differences between what he was being
               told and what he said publicly and in fundraising solicitations, the Committee has
               assembled the following examples.  
            
               
                  
                     
                        Then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen (12/15/20):
                             And so he said, Well, what about this? I saw it on the videotape, somebody delivering a suitcase of
                           ballots.  And we said, It wasnt a suitcase. It was a bin. Thats what they use when theyre counting ballots.  Its benign.105
                     
                     
                        President Trump one week later (12/22/20):
                             There is even security camera footage from Georgia that shows officials telling poll
                           watchers to leave the room before pulling suitcases of ballots out from under the tables and continuing to count for hours.106
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue (12/27 &amp; 12/31/20):
                             I told the President myself that several times, in several conversations, that these allegations about ballots being smuggled in
                           in a suitcase and run through the machine several times, it was not true, that we
                           looked at it, we looked at the video, we interviewed the witnesses, that it was not true . . . .  I believe it was in the phone call on December 27th.  It was also in a meeting in the Oval Office on
                           December 31st.107
                     
                     
                        President Trump later that week (1/2/21):
                             [S]he stuffed the machine.  She stuffed the ballot.  Each ballot went three times,
                           they were showing: Heres ballot number one.  Here it is a second time, third time,
                           next ballot. 108
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        GA Sec. State Brad Raffensperger (1/2/21):
                             Youre talking about the State Farm video. And I think its extremely unfortunate
                           that Rudy Giuliani or his people, they sliced and diced that video and took it out
                           of context. . . . [W]e did an audit of that and we proved conclusively that they
                           were not scanned three times. . . . Yes, Mr. President, well send you the link from
                           WSB.
                             [Trump]: I dont care about a link.  I dont need it.109
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (1/3/21):
                             I spoke to Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger yesterday about Fulton County and voter fraud in Georgia. He was unwilling, or unable,
                           to answer questions such as the ballots under table scam, ballot destruction, out of state voters, dead voters, and more. He has no clue!110
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Attorney General Barr (12/1/20):
                             Then he raised the big vote dump, as he called it, in Detroit. And, you know,
                           he said, people saw boxes coming into the counting station at all hours of the morning
                           and so forth. . . .  I said, Mr. President, there are 630 precincts in Detroit, and
                           unlike elsewhere in the State, they centralize the counting process, so theyre not
                           counted in each precinct, theyre moved to counting stations, and so the normal process
                           would involve boxes coming in at all different hours.
                             And I said, Did anyone point out to youdid all the people complaining about it point out to you, you actually did better
                           in Detroit than you did last time?  I mean, theres no indication of fraud in Detroit.111
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (12/2/20):
                             Ill tell you whats wrong, voter fraud. Heres an example. This is Michigan.
                           At 6:31 in the morning, a vote dump of 149,772 votes came in unexpectedly. We were
                           winning by a lot. That batch was received in horror. . . .
                             In Detroit everybody saw the tremendous conflict. . . there were more votes than there were voters.112
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue (12/27/20):
                             The President then continued, there are more votes than voters. . ..  But I was aware of that allegation, and I said, you know, that was just a matter of
                           them comparing the 2020 votes cast to 2016 registration numbers.  That is not a valid complaint.113
                     
                     
                        President Trump ten days later (1/6/21):
                             More votes than they had voters.  And many other States also.114
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue (1/3/21):
                             [W]e would say to him, you know, We checked that out, and theres nothing to
                           it. . . . And we would cite to certain allegations.  And solike such as Pennsylvania, right.  No, there were not 250,000 more votes reported than were actually cast.  Thats not
                           true.  So we would say things like that.115
                     
                     
                        President Trump three days later (1/6/21):
                             In Pennsylvania, you had 205,000 more votes than you had voters. And the number is
                           actually much greater than that now. That was as of a week ago. And this is a mathematical
                           impossibility unless you want to say its a total fraud.116
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        GA Sec. State Brad Raffensperger (1/2/21):
                             [Trump]: [I]ts 4,502 who voted, but they werent on the voter registration
                           roll, which they had to be. You had 18,325 vacant address voters. The address was
                           vacant, and theyre not allowed to be counted. Thats 18,325. . . .     
                        [Raffensperger]: Well, Mr. President, the challenge that you have is the data you have is wrong.117
                     
                     
                        President Trump two days later (1/4/21):
                             4,502 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the states voter
                           rolls. Well, thats sort of strange. 18,325 illegal ballots were cast by individuals
                           who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant according to the postal service.118
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        GA Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger (1/2/21):
                             [Trump]: So dead people voted, and I think the number is close to 5,000 people.
                           And they went to obituaries. They went to all sorts of methods to come up with an
                           accurate number, and a minimum is close to about 5,000 voters. . . .
                             [Raffensperger]: The actual number were two. Two. Two people that were dead that voted. So thats
                           wrong.119
                     
                     
                        President Trump four days later (1/6/21):
                             [T]he number of fraudulent ballots that weve identified across the state is staggering.  Over 10,300 ballots in Georgia were
                           cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Georgia residents who died in 2020 and prior to the election.120
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        GA Sec. State General Counsel Ryan Germany (1/2/21):
                             [Trump]: You had out-of-state voters. They voted in Georgia, but they were from
                           out of state, of 4,925. . . .
                             [Germany]: Every one weve been through are people that lived in Georgia, moved to a different state,
                           but then moved back to Georgia legitimately. . . .  They moved back in years ago. This was not like something just before the election.
                           So theres something about that data that, its just not accurate.121
                     
                     
                        President Trump four days later (1/6/21):
                             And at least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior
                           to November 3rd election. They say they moved right back.122
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany (n.d.):
                             [T]he one specific I remember referencing was I dont agree with the Dominion
                           track. . . .
                             I specifically referenced waving him off of the Dominion theory earlier in my
                           testimony. . . .
                             [Q] Are you saying you think he still continued to tweet that after you waved
                           him off of it?
                             [A] Yeah. . .123
                     
                     
                        President Trump:
                        Between mid-November and January 5, 2021, President Trump tweeted or retweeted conspiracy theories
                           about Dominion nearly three dozen times.124
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller:
                             . . .the international allegations for Dominion were not valid.
                             [Q] Okay.  Did anybody communicate that to the President?
                             [A]: I know that that wasI know that was communicated.  I know I communicated it125
                     
                     
                        President Trump:
                             You have Dominion, which is very, very suspect to start off with.  Nobody knows the
                           ownership.  People say the votes are counted in foreign countries and much worse. . .126
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Attorney General Barr (11/23/20):
                             I specifically raised the Dominion voting machines, which I found to be one
                           of the most disturbing allegations disturbing in the sense that I saw absolutely zero basis for the allegations . . . I told him that it was crazy stuff and they were wasting their time on that and it was
                           doing great, great disservice to the country.127
                     
                     
                        President Trump three days later (11/26/20):
                             [T]hose machines are fixed, theyre rigged. You can press Trump and the vote goes to
                           Biden. . . . All you have to do is play with a chip, and they played with a chip, especially in Wayne County and Detroit.128
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Attorney General  Barr (12/1/20):
                             I explained, I said, look, if you have a machine and it counts 500 votes for Biden
                           and 500 votes for Trump, and then you go back later and you have ayou will have the 1,000 pieces of paper put through that machine, and you can see
                           if theres any discrepancy. . . there has been no discrepancy.129
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (12/2/20):
                             In one Michigan County, as an example, that used Dominion systems, they found that
                           nearly 6,000 votes had been wrongly switched from Trump to Biden, and this is just
                           the tip of the iceberg. This is what we caught. How many didnt we catch?130
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Attorney General  Barr (12/14/20):
                             I will, Mr. President. But there are a couple of things, I responded. My understanding
                           is that our experts have looked at the Antrim situation and are sure it was a human
                           error that did not occur anywhere else. And, in any event, Antrim is doing a hand
                           recount of the paper ballots, so we should know in a couple of days whether there
                           is any real problem with the machines.131
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (12/15/20):
                             This is BIG NEWS. Dominion Voting Machines are a disaster all over the Country.
                           Changed the results of a landslide election. Cant let this happen. . . .132
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen (12/15/20):
                             [O]ther people were telling him there was fraud, you know, corruption in the election. The
                           voting machines were no good.  And we were telling him that is inconsistent, by we, I mean Richard Donoghue and myself, that that was not what we were seeing. . . . There was this open issue as to the Michigan report. AndI think it was Mr. Cuccinelli, not certain, but had indicated that there was a hand
                           recount.  And I think he said, Thats the gold standard.133
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (12/16/20):
                             Study: Dominion Machines shifted 2-3% of Trump Votes to Biden. Far more votes than
                           needed to sway election. Florida, Ohio, Texas and many other states were won by even greater margins than
                           projected. Did just as well with Swing States, but bad things happened. @OANN134
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        National Security Adviser Robert OBrien (12/18/20):
                             I got a call from, I think, Molly Michael in outer oval, the Presidents assistant,
                           and she said, Im connecting you to the Oval. . . somebody asked me, was theredid I have any evidence of election fraud in the voting machines or foreign interference in our voting machines.  And I said, no, weve looked into that and theres no evidence
                           of it.135
                     
                     
                        President Trump one day later (12/19/20):
                             . . .There could also have been a hit on our ridiculous voting machines during the election,
                           which is now obvious that I won big, making it an even more corrupted embarrassment for the USA. @DNI_Ratcliffe @SecPompeo136
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Acting Deputy AG Richard Donoghue (12/31/20): 
                             We definitely talked about Antrim County again.  That was sort of done at that
                           point, because the hand recount had been done and all of that.  But we cited back
                           to that to say, you know, this is an example of what people are telling you and whats
                           being filed in some of these court filings that are just not supported by the evidence.137
                     
                     
                        President Trump two days later (1/2/21):
                             Well, Brad. Not that theres not an issue, because we have a big issue with
                           Dominion in other states and perhaps in yours. . . . in other states, we think we found tremendous corruption with Dominion machines,
                           but well have to see. . . . I wont give Dominion a pass because we found too many bad things.138
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        GA Sec. State Brad Raffensperger (1/2/21):
                             I dont believe that youre really questioning the Dominion machines. Because
                           we did a hand re-tally, a 100 percent re-tally of all the ballots, and compared them
                           to what the machines said and came up with virtually the same result. Then we did
                           the recount, and we got virtually the same result.139
                     
                     
                        President Trump four days later (1/6/21):
                            In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion Voting Systems. In
                           one Michigan county alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden and the same
                           systems are used in the majority of states in our country. . . .  There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President
                           Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties in Georgia.140
                     
                  
               
            
            Evidence gathered by the Committee indicates that President Trump raised roughly one
               quarter of a billion dollars in fundraising efforts between the election and January
               6th.141  Those solicitations persistently claimed and referred to election fraud that did
               not exist.  For example, the Trump Campaign, along with the Republican National Committee,
               sent millions of emails to their supporters, with messaging claiming that the election
               was rigged, that their donations could stop Democrats from trying to steal the
               election, and that Vice President Biden would be an illegitimate president if he
               took office. 
            
                  Taped footage of William Barr speaking to the January 6th Select Committee is shown
                     at one of its hearings.
                  (Photo by Mandel Ngan-Pool/Getty Images)
               
            
            Ultimately, Attorney General Barr suggested that the Department of Justices investigations
               disproving President Trumps fraud claims may have prevented an even more serious
               series of events:
            [F]rankly, I think the fact that I put myself in the position that I could say that
               we had looked at this and didnt think there was fraud was really important to moving
               things forward. And I sort of shudder to think what the situation would have been
               if the position of the Department was, Were not even looking at this until after
               Bidens in office. Im not sure we wouldve had a transition at all.142
            Rather than Concede, Donald Trump Chooses to Obstruct the January 6th Proceeding
            President Trump disregarded the rulings of the courts and rejected the findings and
               conclusions and advice from his Justice Department, his campaign experts, and his
               White House and Cabinet advisors.  He chose instead to try to overturn the election
               on January 6th and took a series of very specific steps to attempt to achieve that
               result. 
            A central element of Donald Trumps plan to overturn the election relied upon Vice
               President Mike Pence.  As Vice President, Pence served as the President of the Senate,
               the presiding officer for the joint session of Congress on January 6th.  Beginning
               in December, and with greater frequency as January 6th approached, Trump repeatedly
               and unlawfully pressured Pence in private and public to prevent Congress from counting
               lawful electoral votes from several States. 
            To understand the plan President Trump devised with attorney and law professor John
               Eastman, it is necessary to understand the constitutional structure for selecting
               our President.
            At the Constitutional Convention 233 years ago, the framers considered but rejected
               multiple proposals that Congress itself vote to select the President of the United
               States.143  Indeed the Framers voiced very specific concerns with Congress selecting the President.
               They viewed it as important that the electors, chosen for the specific purpose of
               selecting the President, should make the determination rather than Congress:
            It was desireable, that the sense of the people should operate in the choice of the
               person to whom so important a trust was to be confided.  This end will be answered
               by committing the right of making it, not to any pre-established body, but to men,
               chosen by the people for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.144 
            The Framers understood that a thoughtful structure for the appointment of the President
               was necessary to avoid certain evils:  Nothing was more to be desired, than that
               every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue and corruption.145  They were careful to ensure that those who from situation might be suspected of
               too great devotion to the president in office were not among those that chose the
               president.146  For that reason, [n]o senator, representative, or other person holding a place
               of trust or profit under the United States, can be of the number of the electors.147  
            Article II of our Constitution, as modified by the Twelfth Amendment, governs election
               of the President.  Article II created the electoral college, providing that the States
               would select electors in the manner provided by State legislatures, and those electors
               would in turn vote for the President.  Today, every State selects Presidential electors
               by popular vote, and each States laws provide for procedures to resolve election
               disputes, including through lawsuits if necessary.  After any election issues are
               resolved in State or Federal court, each States government transmits a certificate
               of the ascertainment of the appointed electors to Congress and the National Archives.
               
            The electoral college meets in mid-December to cast their votes, and all of these
               electoral votes are then ultimately counted by Congress on January 6th.  The Vice
               President, as President of the Senate, presides over the joint session of Congress
               to count votes.  The Twelfth Amendment provides this straightforward instruction:
               The president of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives,
               open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted; The person having the
               greatest number of votes for President shall be the President. . .  The Vice President
               has only a ministerial role, opening the envelopes and ensuring that the votes are
               counted.  Likewise, the Electoral Count Act of 1887 provides no substantive role for
               the Vice President in counting votes, reinforcing that he or she can only act in a
               ministerial fashionthe Vice President may not choose, for example, to decline to
               count particular votes.  In most cases (e.g., when one candidate has a majority of votes submitted by the States) Congress has
               only a ministerial role, as well.  It simply counts electoral college votes provided
               by each States governor.  Congress is not a court and cannot overrule State and Federal
               court rulings in election challenges.
            As January 6th approached, John Eastman and others devised a plan whereby Vice President
               Pence would, as the presiding officer, declare that certain electoral votes from certain
               States could not be counted at the joint session.148  John Eastman knew before proposing this plan that it was not legal.  Indeed, in
               a pre-election document discussing Congresss counting of electoral votes, Dr. Eastman
               specifically disagreed with a colleagues proposed argument that the Vice President
               had the power to choose which envelopes to open and which votes to count.  Dr.
               Eastman wrote:
            I dont agree with this.  The 12th Amendment only says that the President of the Senate opens the ballots in the joint
               session then, in the passive voice, that the votes shall then be counted. 3 USC 
               12 [of the Electoral Count Act] says merely that he is the presiding officer, and
               then it spells out specific procedures, presumptions, and default rules for which
               slates will be counted.  Nowhere does it suggest that the president of the Senate
               gets to make the determination on his own.  15 [of the Electoral Count Act] doesnt
               either.149 
            Despite recognizing prior to the 2020 election that the Vice President had no power
               to refuse to count certain electoral votes, Eastman nevertheless drafted memoranda
               two months later proposing that Pence could do exactly that on January 6threfuse
               to count certified electoral votes from Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico,
               Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.150
            Eastmans theory was related to other  efforts overseen by President Trump (described
               in detail below, see infra) to create and transmit fake electoral slates to Congress and the National Archives,
               and to pressure States to change the election outcome and issue new electoral slates.
               Eastman supported these ideas despite writing two months earlier that: 
            Article II [of the Constitution] says the electors are appointed in such manner as
               the Legislature thereof may direct, but I dont think that entitles the Legislature
               to change the rules after the election and appoint a different slate of electors in
               a manner different than what was in place on election day.  And 3 U.S.C. 15 [of the
               Electoral Count Act] gives dispositive weight to the slate of electors that was certified
               by the Governor in accord with 3 U.S.C. 5.151
            Even after Eastman proposed the theories in his December and January memoranda, he
               acknowledged in conversations with Vice President Pences counsel Greg Jacob that
               Pence could not lawfully do what his own memoranda proposed.152  Eastman admitted that the U.S. Supreme Court would unanimously reject his legal
               theory.  He [Eastman] had acknowledged that he would lose 9-0 at the Supreme Court.153  Moreover, Eastman acknowledged to Jacob that he didnt think Vice President Al Gore
               had that power in 2001, nor did he think Vice President Kamala Harris should have
               that power in 2025.154 
            In testimony before the Select Committee, Jacob described in detail why the Trump
               plan for Pence was illegal:
            [T]he Vice Presidents first instinct, when he heard this theory, was that there was
               no way that our Framers, who abhorred concentrated power, who had broken away from
               the tyranny of George III, would ever have put one personparticularly not a person
               who had a direct interest in the outcome because they were on the ticket for the electionin
               a role to have decisive impact on the outcome of the election.  And our review of
               text, history, and, frankly, just common sense, all confirmed the Vice Presidents
               first instinct on that point.  There is no justifiable basis to conclude that the
               Vice President has that kind of authority.155
            This is how the Vice President later described his views in a public speech: 
            I had no right to overturn the election.  The Presidency belongs to the American people,
               and the American people alone.  And frankly, there is no idea more un-American than
               the notion that any one person could choose the American President.  Under the Constitution,
               I had no right to change the outcome of our election.156
            But as January 6th approached, President Trump nevertheless embraced the new Eastman
               theories, and attempted to implement them.  In a series of meetings and calls, President
               Trump attempted to pressure Pence to intervene on January 6th to prevent Congress
               from counting multiple States electoral votes for Joe Biden.  At several points in
               the days before January 6th, President Trump was told directly that Vice President
               Pence could not legally do what Trump was asking.  For example, at a January 4th meeting
               in the Oval Office, Eastman acknowledged that any variation of his proposalwhether
               rejecting electoral votes outright or delaying certification to send them back to
               the Stateswould violate several provisions of the Electoral Count Act.  According
               to Greg Jacob:
            In the conversation in the Oval Office on the 4th, I had raised the fact that . .
               . [ Eastmans] preferred course had issues with the Electoral Count Act, which he
               had acknowledged was the case, that there would be an inconsistency with the Electoral
               Count Act[.]157
            Jacob recorded Eastmans admission in an internal memo he drafted for Vice President
               Pence on the evening of January 4th: Professor Eastman acknowledges that his proposal
               violates several provisions of statutory law.158  And, during a phone call with President Trump and Eastman on the evening of January
               5, 2021, Eastman again acknowledged that his proposal also would violate several provisions of the Electoral
               Count Act. 
            [W]e did have an in-depth discussion about [the Electoral Count Act] in the subsequent
               phone calls as I walked him through provision after provision on the recess and on
               the fact that . . . Congressmen and Senators are supposed to get to object and debate.
               And he acknowledged, one after another, that those provisions wouldin order for us
               to send it back to the States, we couldnt do those things as well. We cant do a
               10-day, send it back to the States, and honor an Electoral Count Act provision that
               says you cant recess for more than one day and, once you get to the 5th, you have
               to stay continuously in session.159
            As  Pences Chief of Staff, Marc Short, testified that the Vice President also repeatedly
               informed President Trump that the Vice Presidents role on January 6th was only ministerial.
               
            Committee Staff: But just to pick up on that, Mr. Short, was it your impression that
               the Vice President had directly conveyed his position on these issues to the President,
               not just to the world through a Dear Colleague Letter, but directly to President Trump?
            Marc Short: Many times. 
            Committee Staff: And had been consistent in conveying his position to the President?
               
            Short: Very consistent.160
            As the situation grew increasingly acrimonious, Vice President Pences private counsel
               Richard Cullen contacted former Fourth Circuit Judge Michael Luttig, a renowned conservative
               judge for whom Eastman had previously clerked, and asked Luttig to make a public statement.
               On January 5th, Luttig wrote the following on Twitter: The only responsibility and
               power of the Vice President under the Constitution is to faithfully count the electoral
               college votes as they have been cast.161  As Judge Luttig testified in the Committees hearings, there was no basis in the
               Constitution or laws of the United States at all for the theory espoused by Dr. Eastmanat
               all.  None.162  Judge Luttig completely rejected Eastmans blueprint to overturn the 2020 election
               as constitutional mischief and the most reckless, insidious, and calamitous failure[]
               in both legal and political judgment in American history.163 
            
                  Greg Jacob and Judge Michael Luttig testify at January 6th Select Committee hearing.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            Contemporaneous written correspondence also confirms both that: (1) Eastman himself
               recognized Pence could not lawfully refuse to count electoral votes, and (2) President
               Trump also knew this.  While sheltering in a loading dock with the Vice President
               during the violent January 6th attack, Greg Jacob asked Eastman in an email, Did
               you advise the President that in your professional judgment the Vice President DOES
               NOT have the power to decide things unilaterally?  Eastmans response stated that
               the President had been so advised, but then indicated that President Trump continued
               to pressure the Vice President to act illegally: But you know himonce he gets something
               in his head, it is hard to get him to change course.164
            To be absolutely clear, no White House lawyer believed Pence could lawfully refuse
               to count electoral votes.  White House Counsel Pat Cipollone told the Select Committee
               this:
            I thought that the Vice President did not have the authority to do what was being
               suggested under a proper reading of the law.  I conveyed that, ok?  I think I actually
               told somebody, you know, in the Vice Presidents Just blame me. You know this isIm
               not a politician, you know. . . but, you know, I just said, Im a lawyer.  This is
               my legal opinion.165
            Cipollone also testified that he was sure [he] conveyed his views.166  Indeed, other testimony from Cipollone indicates that Trump knew of Cipollones
               view and suggests that Trump purposely excluded Cipollone from the meeting with Pence
               and Pences General Counsel on January 4th.167  Indeed, at one point, Cipollone confronted Eastman in the hallway outside the Oval
               Office and expressed his disapproval of and anger with Eastmans position.  According
               to Jason Miller, Pat Cipollone thought the idea was nutty and had at one point confronted
               Eastman basically with the same sentiment outside the Oval Office.168  Pat Cipollone did not deny having an angry confrontation with Eastman outside of
               the Oval Officethough he said he didnt have a specific recollection, he had no reason
               to contradict what Jason Miller said and, moreover, said that Eastman was aware of
               his views.169
            Likewise, Eric Herschmann, another White House lawyer, expressed the same understanding
               that Eastmans plan obviously made no sense and had no practical ability to work.170   Herschmann also recounted telling Eastman directly that his plan was completely
               crazy:
            And I said to [Eastman], hold on a second, I want to understand what youre saying.
               Youre saying you believe the Vice President, acting as President of the Senate, can
               be the sole decisionmaker as to, under your theory, who becomes the next President
               of the United States? And he said, yes. And I said, are you out of your Fing mind,
               right.  And that was pretty blunt.  I said, youre completely crazy.171
            Deputy White House Counsel Pat Philbin also had the same understanding.172  Indeed, as Herschmann testified, even Rudolph Giuliani doubted that Vice President
               Mike Pence had any legal ability to do what Eastman had proposed.173 
            Despite all this opposition from all White House lawyers, Trump nevertheless continued
               to exert immense pressure on Pence to refuse to count electoral votes.
            The pressure began before the January 4th Oval Office meeting with Pence, Eastman,
               Jacob, Short, and Trump, but became even more intense thereafter.  On the evening
               of January 5, 2021, the New York Times published an article reporting that Vice President
               Mike Pence told President Trump on Tuesday that he did not believe he had the power
               to block congressional certification of Joseph R. Biden, Jr.s victory in the Presidential
               election despite President Trumps baseless insistence that he did.174  This reporting was correctboth as to the Vice Presidents power and as to Vice
               President Pence having informed President Trump that he did not have the authority
               to change the outcome of the election.  But in response to that story, late in the
               evening before the January 6th joint session, President Trump dictated to Jason Miller
               a statement falsely asserting, The Vice President and I are in total agreement that the Vice President has the power to act.175 This statement was released at President Trumps direction and was false.176 
            Thereafter, Trump continued to apply public pressure in a series of tweets.  At 1:00
               a.m. on January 6th, [i]f Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will
               win the Presidency. Many States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying
               incorrect &amp; even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures
               (which it must be). Mike can send it back!177  At 8:17 a.m. on January 6th, he tweeted again: States want to correct their votes,
               which they now know were based on irregularities and fraud, plus corrupt process never
               received legislative approval. All Mike Pence has to do is send them back to the States,
               AND WE WIN. Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!178 
            President Trump tried to reach the Vice President early in the morning of January
               6th, but the Vice President did not take the call.  The President finally reached
               the Vice President later that morning, shouting from the Oval Office to his assistants
               to get the Vice President on the phone.179  After again telling the Vice President that he had the legal authority to send
               [electoral votes] back to the respective states, President Trump grew very heated.180  Witnesses in the Oval Office during this call told the Select Committee that the
               President called Vice President Pence a wimp,181 told him it would be a political career killer to certify the lawful electoral
               votes electing President Biden,182 and accused him of not [being] tough enough to make the call.183  As Ivanka Trump would recount to her chief of staff moments later, her father called
               the Vice President the p-word for refusing to overturn the election.184 
            
                  President Trump speaks with Vice President Pence over the phone in the Oval Office
                     on the morning of January 6th.
                  Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            In response, Vice President Pence again refused to take any action other than counting
               the lawfully certified electoral votes of the States.  But President Trump was angry
               and undeterred.  After the conclusion of this call, he edited his speech for the Ellipse
               to insert language to which his lawyers objectedtargeting Vice President Pence directly.185  
            Earlier that morning, Eric Herschmann had tried to remove the reference to Vice President
               Pence from the speech.  As he told speechwriter Stephen Miller, he didnt concur
               with the legal analysis that John Eastman had advanced and believed it wouldnt
               advance the ball to discuss it publicly.186  But after the call with Vice President Pence, speechwriters were instructed to reinsert
               the line.  Although the final written draft of his speech referred to Pence just oncea
               line President Trump didnt end up reading187the President went off-script five different times to pressure the Vice President:
            I hope Mike is going to do the right thing.  I hope so.  Because if Mike Pence does
               the right thing, we win the election, Trump first told the crowd.188
            Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us, Trump later said, and if he
               doesnt, that will be a, a sad day for our country because youre sworn to uphold
               our Constitution.189
            Addressing Pence directly, Trump told the assembled crowd: Mike Pence, I hope youre
               going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country.
               Trump said at another point, And if youre not, Im going to be very disappointed
               in you.  I will tell you right now.  Im not hearing good stories.190
            So I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do.  And I hope he doesnt listen
               to the RINOs and the stupid people that hes listening to, Trump said.191
            These statements to the assembled crowd at the Ellipse had Trumps intended effectthey
               produced substantial anger against Pence. When Pence released a statement confirming
               that he would not act to prevent Congress from counting electoral votes, the crowds
               reaction was harshly negative: 
            Im telling you what, Im hearing that Pence  hearing the Pence just caved. No.
               Is that true? I didnt hear it. Im hear  Im hearing reports that Pence caved. No
               way. Im telling you, if Pence caved, were going to drag motherfuckers through the
               streets. You fucking politicians are going to get fucking drug through the streets.192
            Pence voted against Trump. [Interviewer: Ok. And thats when all this started?]
               Yup. Thats when we marched on the Capitol. 193
            We just heard that Mike Pence is not going to reject any fraudulent electoral votes.
               [Other speaker: Boo. Youre a traitor!] Thats right. Youve heard it here first.
               Mike Pence has betrayed the United States of America. [Other speaker: Fuck you, Mike
               Pence!] Mike Pence has betrayed this President and he has betrayed the people of
               the United States and we will never, ever forget. [Cheers]194
            This woman cames [sic] up to the side of us and she says Pence folded. So it was
               kind of, like, Ok, well  in my mind I was thinking, well thats it. You know. Well,
               my son-in-law looks at me and he says I want to go in.195
            [Q] What percentage of the crowd is going to the Capitol? [A] [Oath Keeper Jessica
               Watkins]: One hundred percent.  It has, it has spread like wildfire that Pence has
               betrayed us, and everybodys marching on the Capitol.  All million of us.  Its insane.196
            Bring him out. Bring out Pence. Bring him out. Bring out Pence. Bring him out. Bring
               out Pence. Bring him out. Bring out Pence.197
            Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence.198
            Once Trump returned to the White House, he was informed almost immediately that violence
               and lawlessness had broken out at the Capitol among his supporters.199  At 2:24 p.m., President Trump applied yet further pressure to Pence (see infra), posting a tweet accusing Vice President Mike Pence of cowardice for not using his
               role as President of the Senate to change the outcome of the election:  Mike Pence
               didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and
               our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not
               the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.  USA
               demands the truth!200  Almost immediately thereafter, the crowd around the Capitol surged, and more individuals
               joined the effort to confront police and break further into the building.  
            The sentiment expressed in President Trumps 2:24 p.m. tweet, already present in the
               crowd, only grew more powerful as the Presidents words spread. Timothy Hale-Cusanellia
               white supremacist who expressed Nazi sympathiesheard about the tweet while in the
               Crypt around 2:25 p.m., and he, according to the Department of Justice, knew what
               that meant. Vice President Pence had decided not to keep President Trump in power.201 Other rioters described what happened next as follows: 
            Once we found out Pence turned on us and that they had stolen the election, like officially,
               the crowd went crazy. I mean, it became a mob. We crossed the gate.202 
            Then we heard the news on [P]ence. . . And lost it . . . So we stormed.203 
            Theyre making an announcement right now saying if Pence betrays us you better get
               your mind right because were storming that building.204
            Minutes after the tweetat 2:35 p.m.rioters continued their surge and broke a security
               line of the DC Metropolitan Police Department, resulting in the first fighting withdrawal
               in the history of that force.205  
            President Trump issued this tweet after he had falsely claimed to the angry crowd
               that Vice President Mike Pence could do the right thing and ensure a second Trump
               term, after that angry crowd had turned into a violent mob assaulting the Capitol
               while chanting, Hang Mike Pence!206 and after the U.S. Secret Service had evacuated the Vice President from the Senate
               floor.207  One minute after the Presidents tweet, at 2:25 p.m., the Secret Service determined
               they could no longer protect the Vice President in his ceremonial office near the
               Senate Chamber, and evacuated the Vice President and his family to a secure location,
               missing the violent mob by a mere 40 feet.208
            Further evidence presented at our hearing shows the violent reaction following President
               Trumps 2:24 p.m. tweet and the efforts to protect Vice President Pence in the time
               that followed.209
            The day after the attack on the Capitol, Eastman called Eric Herschmann to talk about
               continuing litigation on behalf of the Trump Presidential Campaign in Georgia.   Herschmann
               described his reaction to Eastman this way: 
            And I said to him, are you out of your Fing mind? Right? I said, because I only want to hear two words coming out of your mouth from
                  now on: Orderly transition. I said, I dont want to hear any other Fing words coming out of your mouth, no matter what, other than orderly transition. Repeat
                  those words to me.210 
             Herschmann concluded the call by telling Eastman: Now Im going to give you the
               best free legal advice youre ever getting in your life.  Get a great Fing criminal
               defense lawyer, youre going to need it, and hanging up the phone.211
            In the course of investigating this series of facts, the Select Committee subpoenaed
               Eastmans emails from his employer, Chapman University.212  Eastman sued to prevent Chapman from producing the emails, arguing that the emails
               were attorney-client privileged.  Federal District Court Judge David Carter reviewed
               Eastmans emails in camera to determine, among other things, whether the emails had to be produced because they
               likely furthered a crime committed by one of  Eastmans clients or by Eastman himself.
               In addition to reviewing the emails themselves, Judge Carter reviewed substantial
               additional evidence presented by the Select Committee and by Eastman.
            After reciting a series of factual findings regarding President Trumps multi-part
               plan to overturn the election, Judge Carter concluded that President Trump likely
               violated two criminal statutes: 18 U.S.C.  1512(c) (corruptly obstructing, impeding
               or influencing Congresss official proceeding to count electoral votes); and 18 U.S.C.
                371 (conspiring to defraud the United States).  The Court also concluded that John
               Eastman likely violated at least one of these criminal laws.  As to 1512(c), Judge
               Carter explained:
            Taken together, this evidence demonstrates that President Trump likely knew the electoral
               count plan had no factual justification.  
            The plan not only lacked factual basis but also legal justification. . . . 
            The illegality of the plan was obvious.  Our nation was founded on the peaceful transition
               of power, epitomized by George Washington laying down his sword to make way for democratic
               elections. Ignoring this history, President Trump vigorously campaigned for the Vice
               President to single-handedly determine the results of the 2020 election. . . . Every
               Americanand certainly the President of the United Statesknows that in a democracy,
               leaders are elected, not installed.  With a plan this BOLD, President Trump knowingly
               tried to subvert this fundamental principle.  Based on the evidence, the Court finds
               it more likely than not that President Trump corruptly attempted to obstruct the Joint
               Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.213 
            As to 18 U.S.C.  371, Judge Carter identified evidence demonstrating that both President
               Trump and John Eastman knew their electoral count plan was illegal, and knew it could
               not survive judicial scrutiny in any of its iterations:
            Dr. Eastman himself repeatedly recognized that his plan had no legal support. . .
               . Dr. Eastman likely acted deceitfully and dishonestly each time he pushed an outcome-driven
               plan that he knew was unsupported by the law.214
            Finally, Judge Carter concluded: 
            Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a campaign to overturn a democratic election,
               an action unprecedented in American history.  Their campaign was not confined to the
               ivory towerit was a coup in search of a legal theory.  The plan spurred violent attacks
               on the seat of our nations government, led to the deaths of several law enforcement
               officers, and deepened public distrust in our political process.215
            Judge Luttig reached similar conclusions during his live hearing testimony: I have
               written, as you said, Chairman Thompson, that, today, almost two years after that
               fateful day in January 2021, that, still, Donald Trump and his allies and supporters
               are a clear and present danger to American democracy.216
            During the hearing, Judge Luttig took issue with certain of Greg Jacobs characterizations
               of the 12th Amendments text, explaining that the applicable text was not ambiguous
               in any way.  The Committee agrees with Judge Luttig: the application of the Twelfth
               Amendments text is plain in this context; it does not authorize Congress to second-guess
               State and Federal courts and refuse to count State electoral votes based on concerns
               about fraud.  See infra.  Although Jacob did not discuss his position in great detail during the hearing,
               his private testimony gives more insight on his actual views:  
            In my view, a lot has been said about the fact that the role of the Vice President
               in the electoral count on January 6th is purely ministerial, and that is a correct
               conclusion.  But if you look at the constitutional text, the role of Congress is purely
               ministerial as well.  You open the certificates and you count them.  Those are the
               only things provided for in the Constitution.217  
            Efforts to Pressure States to Change the Election Outcome, and to Create and Transmit
               Fake Election Certificates
            Anticipating that the Eastman strategy for January 6th would be implemented, President
               Trump worked with a handful of others to prepare a series of false Trump electoral
               slates for seven States Biden actually won.  President Trump personally conducted
               a teleconference with Eastman and Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel
               a few days before December 14 and solicited the RNCs assistance with the scheme.218  McDaniel agreed to provide that assistance.219  
            A series of contemporaneous documents demonstrate what President Trump and his allies,
               including attorney Kenneth Chesebro, were attempting to accomplish: they anticipated
               that the President of the Senate (which, under the Constitution, is the Vice President)
               could rely upon these false slates of electors on January 6th to justify refusing
               to count genuine electoral votes.220  
            
                  Graphic depicting the difference between the real and the fake elector certificates.
               
            
            The false slates were created by fake Republican electors on December 14th, at the
               same time the actual, certified electors in those States were meeting to cast their
               States Electoral College votes for President Biden.  By that point in time, election-related
               litigation was over in all or nearly all of the subject States, and Trump Campaign
               election lawyers realized that the fake slates could not be lawful or justifiable
               on any grounds.  Justin Clark, the Trump Campaign Deputy Campaign Manager and Senior
               Counsel told the Select Committee that he had real problems with the process.221   Clark warned his colleagues, unless we have litigation pending like in these States,
               like, I dont think this is appropriate or, you know, this isnt the right thing to
               do.  I dont remember how I phrased it, but I got into a little bit of a back and
               forth and I think it was with Ken Chesebro, where I said, Alright, you know, you
               just get after it, like, Im out.222
            Matthew Morgan, the Trump Campaign General Counsel, told the Select Committee that
               without an official State certificate of ascertainment,223 the [fake] electors were, for lack of a better way of saying it, no good or notnot
               valid.224   
            The Office of White House Counsel also appears to have expressed concerns with this
               fake elector plan.  In his interview by the Select Committee, White House Counsel
               Pat Cipollone acknowledged his view that by mid-December, the process was done and
               that his deputy, Pat Philbin, may have advised against the fake elector strategy.225  In an informal Committee interview,  Philbin described the fake elector scheme as
               one of the bad theories that were like Whac-A-Mole in the White House during this
               period.226   Cipollone agreed with this characterization.227  
            In her testimony, Cassidy Hutchinson testified that she heard at least one member
               of the White House Counsels Office say that the plan was not legal:
            Committee Staff: [T]o be clear, did you hear the White House Counsels Office say
               that this plan to have alternate electors meet and cast votes for Donald Trump in
               States that he had lost was not legally sound?
            Hutchinson: Yes, sir.228 
            Multiple Republicans who were persuaded to sign the fake certificates also testified
               that they felt misled or betrayed, and would not have done so had they known that
               the fake votes would be used on January 6th without an intervening court ruling. 
               One elector told the Select Committee that he thought his vote would be strictly contingent:
               [I]t was a very consistent message that we were told throughout all of that, is this
               is the only reason why were doing this, is to preserve the integrity of being able
               to have a challenge.229  
            The Chairperson of the Wisconsin fake electors, who was also at the time Chairman
               of the Wisconsin Republican Party, insisted in testimony to the Select Committee that
               he was told that these would only count if a court ruled in our favor and that he
               wouldnt have supported anyone using the Trump electors votes without a court ruling.230
            Despite the fact that all major election lawsuits thus far had failed, President Trump
               and his co-conspirators in this effort, including John Eastman and Kenneth Chesebro,
               pressed forward with the fake elector scheme.  Ultimately, these false electoral slates,
               five of which purported to represent the duly elected electoral college votes of
               their States, were transmitted to Executive Branch officials at the National Archives,
               and to the Legislative Branch, including to the Office of the President of the Senate,
               Vice President Mike Pence.231  
            The fake electors followed Chesebros step-by-step instructions for completing and
               mailing the fake certificates to multiple officials in the U.S. Government,232 complete with registered mail stickers and return address labels identifying senders
               like the Arizona Republican Party and the Georgia Republican Party.233  The Wisconsin Republican Partys fake certificates apparently werent properly delivered,
               however, so the Trump Campaign arranged to fly them to Washington just before the
               joint session on January 6th, and try to deliver them to the Vice President via Senator
               Ron Johnson and Representative Mike Kellys offices.234  Both Johnson and Kellys offices attempted to do so, but Vice President Pences
               aide refused the delivery.235   
            Despite pressure from President Trump, Vice President Pence and the Senate parliamentarian
               refused to recognize or count the unofficial fake electoral  votes.  Greg Jacob testified
               that he advised Vice President Pence on January 2nd that none of the slates that
               had been sent in would qualify as an alternate slate under the law and that the Senate
               Parliamentarian was in agreement with this conclusion.236   
            *  *  *
            In addition to this plan to create and transmit fake electoral slates, Donald Trump
               was also personally and substantially involved in multiple efforts to pressure State
               election officials and State legislatures to alter official lawful election results.
               As U.S. District Judge Carter stated in his June 7, 2022, opinion:
            Dr. Eastmans actions in these few weeks [in December 2020] indicate that his and
               President Trumps pressure campaign to stop the electoral count did not end with Vice
               President Penceit targeted every tier of federal and state elected officials.  Convincing
               state legislatures to certify competing electors was essential to stop the count and
               ensure President Trumps reelection.237  
            Judge Carter also explained that Dr. Eastman and President Trumps plan to disrupt
               the Joint Session was fully formed and actionable as early as December 7, 2020.238
            Chapter 2 of this report provides substantial detail on many of President Trumps
               specific efforts to apply pressure to State officials and legislators.  We provide
               a few examples here:
            During a January 2, 2021, call, President Trump pressured Georgias Republican Secretary
               of State Brad Raffensperger to find 11,780 votes. During that call, President Trump
               asserted conspiracy theories about the election that Department of Justice officials
               had already debunked.  President Trump also made a thinly veiled threat to Raffensperger
               and his attorney about his failure to respond to President Trumps demands: Thats
               a criminal, thats a criminal offense . . . Thats a big risk to you and to Ryan,
               your lawyer . . . Im notifying you that youre letting it happen.239 
            Judge Carter drew these conclusions:
            Mr. Raffensperger debunked the Presidents allegations point by point and explained
               that the data you have is wrong; however, President Trump still told him, I just
               want to find 11,780 votes.240 
            *  *  *
            President Trumps repeated pleas for Georgia Secretary of State Raffensperger clearly
               demonstrate that his justification was not to investigate fraud, but to win the election.
               . . .  Taken together, this evidence demonstrates that President Trump likely knew
               the electoral count plan had no factual justification.  The plan not only lacked factual
               basis but also legal justification.241 
            That call to Raffensperger came on the heels of President Trumps repeated attacks
               on Raffensperger, election workers, and other public servants about President Trumps
               loss in the election.  A month earlier, the Georgia Secretary of States Chief Operating
               Officer, Gabriel Sterling, had given this explicit public warning to President Trump
               and his team, a warning that the Select Committee has determined President Trump apparently
               saw and disregarded:242
            [I]t has all gone too far.  All of it. . . .  
            A 20-something tech in Gwinnett County today has death threats and a noose put out,
               saying he should be hung for treason because he was transferring a report on batches
               from an EMS to a county computer so he could read it. 
            It has to stop. 
            Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions or this language. Senators, you
               have not condemned this language or these actions. This has to stop. We need you to
               step up. And if youre going to take a position of leadership, show some.  
            My boss, Secretary Raffenspergerhis address is out there. They have people doing caravans in front of their house,
               theyve had people come onto their property. Tricia, his wife of 40 years, is getting
               sexualized threats through her cellphone. 
            It has to stop. 
            This is elections, this is the backbone of democracy, and all of you who have not
               said a damn word are complicit in this. Its too much. . . . 
            What you dont have the ability to doand you need to step up and say thisis stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence. Someones going to
               get hurt. Someones going to get shot. Someones going to get killed.243
            
                  Gabriel Sterling at a press conference on November 6, 2020 in Atlanta, Georgia.
                  (Photo by Jessica McGowan/Getty Images)
               
            
            The stark warning was entirely appropriate, and prescient.  In addition to the examples
               Sterling identified, President Trump and his team were also fixated on Georgia election
               workers Ruby Freeman and Wandrea Shaye Moss.  He and Giuliani mentioned  Freeman
               repeatedly in meetings with State legislators, at public rallies, and in the January
               2nd call with Raffensperger.  Referring to a video clip, Giuliani even accused Freeman
               and Moss of trading USB drives to affect votes as if they [were] vials of heroin
               or cocaine.244  This was completely bogus: it was not a USB drive; it was a ginger mint.245 
            After their contact information was published, Trump supporters sent hundreds of threats
               to the women and even showed up at Freemans home.246  As  Freeman testified to the Select Committee, President Trump and his followers
               conduct had a profound impact on her life.  She left her home based on advice from
               the FBI, and wouldnt move back for months.247  And she explained, Ive lost my sense of securityall because a group of people,
               starting with Number 45 [Donald Trump] and his ally Rudy Giuliani, decided to scapegoat
               me and my daughter Shaye to push their own lies about how the Presidential election
               was stolen.248 The treatment of  Freeman and  Moss was callous, inhumane, and inexcusable.  Rudolph
               Giuliani and others with responsibility should be held accountable.
            In Arizona, a primary target of President Trumps pressure, and ire, was House Speaker
               Russell Rusty Bowers, a longtime Republican who had served 17 years in the State
               legislature.  Throughout November and December, Bowers spoke to President Trump, Giuliani,
               and members of Giulianis legal team, in person or on the phone.  During these calls,
               President Trump and others alleged that the results in Arizona were affected by fraud
               and asked that Bowers consider replacing Presidential electors for Biden with electors
               for Trump.249  Bowers demanded proof for the claims of fraud, but never got it.  At one point,
               after Bowers pressed Giuliani on the claims of fraud, Giuliani responded, weve got
               lots of theories, we just dont have the evidence.250  Bowers explained to Giuliani: You are asking me do something against my oath, and
               I will not break my oath.251 
            President Trump and his supporters intimidation tactics affected Bowers, too. Bowerss
               personal cell phone and home address were doxed,252 leading demonstrators to show up at his home and shout insults until police arrived.
               One protestor who showed up at his home was armed and believed to be a member of an
               extremist militia.253  Another hired a truck with a defamatory and profane allegation that Bowers, a deeply
               religious man, was a pedophile, and drove it through Bowerss neighborhood.254  This, again, is the conduct of thugs and criminals, each of whom should be held
               accountable. 
            In Michigan, President Trump focused on Republican Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey
               and Republican House Speaker Lee Chatfield. He invited them to the White House for
               a November 20, 2020, meeting during which President Trump and Giuliani, who joined
               by phone, went through a litany of false allegations about supposed fraud in Michigans
               election.255  Chatfield recalled President Trumps more generic directive for the group to have
               some backbone and do the right thing, which he understood to mean overturning the
               election by naming Michigans Electoral College electors for Trump.256 Shirkey told President Trump that he wouldnt do anything that would violate Michigan
               law,257 and after the meeting ended, issued a joint statement with Chatfield: We have not
               yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election
               in Michigan and as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal
               process regarding Michigans electors, just as we have said throughout this election.258
            When President Trump couldnt convince Shirkey and Chatfield to change the outcome
               of the election in Michigan during that meeting or in calls after, he or his team
               maliciously tweeted out Shirkeys personal cell phone number and a number for Chatfield
               that turned out to be wrong.259  Shirkey received nearly 4,000 text messages after that, and another private citizen
               reported being inundated with calls and texts intended for Chatfield.260  
            None of Donald Trumps efforts ultimately succeeded in changing the official results
               in any State.  That these efforts had failed was apparent to Donald Trump and his
               co-conspirators well before January 6th.  By January 6th, there was no evidence at all that a majority of any State legislature would even
               attempt to change its electoral votes.261  
            This past October, U.S. District Court Judge David Carter issued a further ruling
               relating to one of President Trumps lawsuits in Georgia.  Judge Carter applied the
               crime-fraud exception to attorney-client privilege again, and identified potential
               criminal activity related to a knowingly false representation by Donald Trump to a
               Federal court.  He wrote: 
            The emails show that President Trump knew that the specific numbers of voter fraud
               were wrong but continued to tout those numbers, both in court and in public.262
            As John Eastman wrote in an email on December 31, 2020, President Trump was made
               aware that some of the allegations (and evidence proffered by the experts) in a verified
               State court complaint was inaccurate.263  Dr. Eastman noted that with that knowledge President Trump could not accurately
               verify a Federal court complaint that incorporated by reference the inaccurate State
               court complaint: I have no doubt that an aggressive DA or US Atty someplace will
               go after both the President and his lawyers once all the dust settles on this.264 Despite this specific warning,  President Trump and his attorneys ultimately filed
               the complaint with the same inaccurate numbers without rectifying, clarifying, or
               otherwise changing them.265  And President Trump personally signed a verification swearing under oath that the
               incorporated, inaccurate numbers are true and correct or believed to be true and
               correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.266  The numbers were not correct, and President Trump and his legal team knew it. 
            Efforts to Corrupt the Department of Justice
            
                  Steven Engel, Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue at a Select Committee hearing on
                     June 23, 2022.
                  (Photo by House Creative Services)
               
            
            In the weeks after the 2020 election, Attorney General Barr advised President Trump
               that the Department of Justice had not seen any evidence to support Trumps theory
               that the election was stolen by fraud.  Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen and
               his Deputy repeatedly reinforced to President Trump that his claims of election fraud
               were false when they took over in mid-December.  Also in mid-December 2020, Attorney
               General Barr announced his plans to resign.  Between that time and January 6th, Trump spoke with Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen and Acting Deputy Richard Donoghue
               repeatedly, attempting to persuade them and the Department of Justice to find factual
               support for his stolen election claims and thereby to assist his efforts to reverse
               election results. 
            As Rosen publicly testified, . . . between December 23rd and January 3rd, the President
               either called me or met with me virtually every day, with one or two exceptions, like
               Christmas Day.267  As discussed earlier, Justice Department investigations had demonstrated that the
               stolen election claims were false; both Rosen and Donoghue told President Trump this
               comprehensively and repeatedly. 
            One of those conversations occurred on December 27th, when President Trump called
               Rosen to go through a stream of allegations about the election.268  Donoghue described that call as an escalation of the earlier conversations they
               had.269  Initially, President Trump called Rosen directly.  When Donoghue joined the call,
               he sought to make it clear to the President [that] these allegations were simply
               not true.270 
            So [the President] went through [the allegations]in what for me was a 90-minute conversation
               or so, and what for the former Acting AG was a 2-hour conversationas the President
               went through them I went piece by piece to say no, thats false, that is not true,
               and to correct him really in a serial fashion as he moved from one theory to another.271 
            The President raised, among others, debunked claims about voting machines in Michigan,
               a truck driver who allegedly moved ballots from New York to Pennsylvania, and a purported
               election fraud at the State Farm Arena in Georgia.272  None of the allegations were credible, and Rosen and Donoghue said so to the President.273 
            At one point during the December 27th call in which Donoghue refuted President Trumps fraud allegations, Donoghue recorded
               in handwritten notes a request President Trump made specifically to him and Acting
               Attorney General Rosen: Just say the election was corrupt and leave the rest to me
               and the Republican Congressmen.274  Donoghue explained: [T]he Department had zero involvement in anyones political
               strategy, and he wanted us to say that it was corrupt.275  We told him we were not going to do that.276  At the time, neither Rosen nor Donoghue knew the full extent to which Republican
               Congressmen, including Representative Scott Perry, were attempting to assist President
               Trump to overturn the election results. 
            The Committees investigation has shown that Congressman Perry was working with one
               Department of Justice official, Jeffrey Clark, regarding the stolen election claims.
               Perry was working with Clark and with President Trump and Chief of Staff Mark Meadows
               with this goal: to enlist Clark to reverse the Department of Justices findings regarding
               the election and help overturn the election outcome.277  
            After introducing Clark to the President, Perry sent multiple text messages to Meadows
               between December 26th and December 28th, pressing that Clark be elevated within the
               Department.  Perry reminded Meadows that there are only 11 days to 1/6. . .We gotta
               get going!, and, as the days went on, one asking, Did you call Jeff Clark?278 
            Acting Attorney General Rosen first learned about Clarks contact with President Trump
               in a call on Christmas Eve.  On that call, President Trump mentioned Clark to Rosen,
               who was surprised to learn that Trump knew Clark and had met with him.  Rosen later
               confronted Clark about the contact: Jeff, anything going on that you think I should
               know about?279  Clark didnt immediately volunteer the fact that he had met with the President,
               but ultimately acknowledged that he had been at a meeting with the President in the
               Oval Office, not alone, with other people.280  Clark was kind of defensive and somewhat apologetic, casting it as that he
               had had a meeting with Congressman Perry from Pennsylvania and that, to his surprise,
               or, you know, he hadnt anticipated it, that they somehow wound up at a meeting in
               the Oval Office.281  Clarks contact with President Trump violated both Justice Department and White
               House policies designed to prevent political pressure on the Department.282
             While Clark initially appeared apologetic and assured Rosen that [i]t wont happen
               again,283 he nevertheless continued to work and meet secretly with President Trump and Congressman
               Perry.  Less than five days after assuring Rosen that he would comply with the Departments
               White House contacts policy, Clark told Rosen and Donoghue that he had again violated
               that policy.  Donoghue confronted him: I reminded him that I was his boss and that
               I had directed him to do otherwise.284  
            Around the same time, Representative Perry called Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue,
               criticized the FBI, and suggested that the Department hadnt been doing its job. 
               Perry told Donoghue that Clark would do something about this.285
            On December 28th, Clark worked with a Department employee named Kenneth Klukowskia
               political appointee who had earlier worked with John Eastmanto produce a draft letter
               from the Justice Department to the State legislature of Georgia.286  That letter mirrored a number of the positions President Trump and Eastman were
               taking at the time.287 (Although both Clark and Eastman refused to answer questions by asserting their Fifth
               Amendment right against self-incrimination, evidence shows that Clark and Eastman were in communication in this period leading up to January 6th.288 The draft letter to Georgia was intended to be one of several Department letters
               to State legislatures in swing States that had voted for Biden.289
            The letter read: The Department of Justice is investigating various irregularities in the 2020 election
               for President of the United States.290  Clark continued: The Department will update you as we are able on investigatory progress,
               but at this time we have identified significant concerns that may have impacted the
               outcome of the election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia.291 This was affirmatively untrue. The Department had conducted many investigations of election fraud allegations by
               that point, but it absolutely did not have significant concerns that fraud may
               have impacted the outcome of the election in any State.  Jeff Clark knew this; Donoghue confirmed it again in an email responding to Clarks letter:  [W]e simply do not currently have a basis to make such a statement.  Despite dramatic claims to
               the contrary, we have not seen the type of fraud that calls into question the reported
               (and certified) results of the election.292
            The letter also explicitly recommended that Georgias State legislature should call a special session to evaluate potential election fraud. In light of these developments, the Department recommends that the Georgia General
               Assembly should convene in special session so that its legislators are in a special
               position to take additional testimony, receive new evidence, and deliberate on the
               matter consistent with its duties under the U.S. Constitution.293 
            Clarks draft letter also referenced the fake electors that President Trump and his campaign organizedarguing falsely that there were currently two competing slates of legitimate Presidential electors in Georgia:294 
            The Department believes that in Georgia and several other States, both a slate of
               electors supporting Joseph R. Biden, Jr., and a separate slate of electors supporting
               Donald J. Trump, gathered on [December 14, 2020] at the proper location to cast their
               ballots, and that both sets of those ballots have been transmitted to Washington,
               D.C., to be opened by Vice President Pence.295
            This, of course, was part of Donald Trump and John Eastmans plan for January 6th.
               This letter reflects an effort to use the Department of Justice to help overturn the
               election outcome in Georgia and elsewhere. Rosen and Donoghue reacted immediately to this draft letter: 
            [T]heres no chance that I would sign this letter or anything remotely like this, Donoghue wrote.296 The plan set forth by Clark was not even within the realm of possibility,297 and Donoghue warned that if they sent Clarks letter, it would be a grave step for the Department to take and it could have tremendous Constitutional,
               political and social ramifications for the country.298 
            As Richard Donoghue testified when describing his response to Clarks proposed letter:
            Well, I had to read both the email and the attached letter twice to make sure I really
               understood what he was proposing because it was so extreme to me I had a hard time
               getting my head around it initially. 
            But I read it, and I did understand it for what he intended, and I had to sit down
               and sort of compose what I thought was an appropriate response. . . .
            In my response I explained a number of reasons this is not the Departments role to
               suggest or dictate to State legislatures how they should select their electors. But
               more importantly, this was not based on fact. This was actually contrary to the facts
               as developed by Department investigations over the last several weeks and months.
               
            So, I respond to that. And for the department to insert itself into the political
               process this way I think would have had grave consequences for the country. It may
               very well have spiraled us into a constitutional crisis.299
            Rosen and Donoghue also met with Clark about the letter. Their conversation was a
               very difficult and contentious one, according to Donoghue.300 What youre proposing is nothing less than the United States Justice Department meddling in the outcome
               of a Presidential election, Donoghue admonished Clark, to which Clark indignantly responded, I think a lot of people have meddled in this
               election.301
            Both Rosen and Donoghue refused to sign the letter, and confronted Clark with the
               actual results of the Departments investigations.302  They also permitted Clark access to a classified briefing from the Office of the
               Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) showing Clark that allegations he made
               to Rosen and Donoghue about foreign interference with voting machines were not true.
               According to Rosen, the decision to give Clark the briefing at that point was a difficult
               question because, if hes going to brief the President, I reluctantly think its probably
               better that hes heard from Director Ratcliffe than that he not, even ifI dont think
               he should brief the President. But, at this point, hes telling me that this is happening
               whether I agree with it or not. So, so I let him have that briefing.303  
            After Clark received the ODNI briefing, he acknowledged [to Donoghue] that there
               was nothing in that briefing that would have supported his earlier suspicion about
               foreign involvement.304  While Clark then dropped his claims about foreign interference, he continued to
               press to send the letter to Georgia and other States, despite being told that the
               Department of Justice investigations had found no fraud sufficient to overturn the
               election outcome in Georgia or any other States.  This was an intentional choice by
               Jeff Clark to contradict specific Department findings on election fraud, and purposely
               insert the Department into the Presidential election on President Trumps behalf and
               risk creating or exacerbating a constitutional crisis.
            By this point, President Trump recognized that neither Rosen nor Donoghue would sign
               the letter or support his false election claims.  President Trump and his team then
               communicated further with Clark and offered him the job of Acting Attorney General.
               On January 2nd, Clark told Rosen that he would turn down the Presidents offer if
               [Rosen] reversed [his] position and signed the letter that he and Klukowski had drafted.305  The next day, Clark decided to accept and informed Rosen, who then called White
               House Counsel to seek a meeting directly with President Trump.  As Rosen put it, I
               wasnt going to accept being fired by my subordinate, so I wanted to talk to the President
               directly.306   
            On January 3rd, that meeting was convened.  Although contemporaneous White House documents
               suggest that Clark had already been appointed as the Acting Attorney General,307 all the participants in the meeting other than Clark and President Trump aggressively
               opposed Clarks appointment.   
            At that point, Rosen decided to broaden the circle and ask that his subordinates inform all the other Assistant Attorneys General (AAGs) what was afoot.308  Rosen wanted to know how the AAGs would respond if Jeff Clark was installed as the
               Acting Attorney General.  Pat Hovakimian, who worked for Rosen, then set up a conference call.  The AAGs almost immediately agreed that they would resign if Rosen was removed from office.309
            Rosen, Donoghue, and Steve Engel, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of
               Legal Counsel, attended the meeting.  White House lawyers Pat Cipollone, Eric Herschmann
               and Pat Philbin joined as well.  
            When the meeting started, Clark attempted to defend his appointment.  Clark declared that this was the last opportunity to sort of set things straight
               with this defective election, and he had the intelligence, the will, and desire
               to pursue these matters in the way that the President thought most appropriate.310  Everyone else present disagreed that Clark could conceivably accomplish these things.
            White House Counsel Pat Cipollone threatened to resign as well, describing Clarks letter as a murder-suicide pact.311  Cipollone warned that the letter would damage everyone who touches it and no one should have
               anything to do with it.312
            President Trump asked Donoghue and Engel what they would do if Clark took office.  Both confirmed they would resign.313  Steve Engel recalled that the President next asked if he would resign:
            At some point, [] I believe Rich Donoghue said that senior Department officials would
               all resign if Mr. Clark were put in, and the President turned to me and said, Steve,
               you wouldnt resign, would you?  I said, Well, Mr. President, Ive been with you
               through four Attorneys General, including two Acting Attorneys General, and I just
               couldnt be part of this if Mr. Clark were here.  And I said, And I believe that
               the other senior Department officials would resign as well.  And Mr. Clark would be
               here by himself with a hostile building, those folks who remained, and nothing would
               get done.314 
            Donoghue added that they would not be the only ones to resign. You should understand
               that your entire Department leadership will resign, Donoghue recalled saying. This
               included every Assistant Attorney General. Mr. President, these arent bureaucratic
               leftovers from another administration, Donoghue reminded Trump, You picked them.
               This is your leadership team. Donoghue added, And what happens if, within 48 hours, we have hundreds of resignations from your
               Justice Department because of your actions? What does that say about your leadership?315 Steve Engel then reinforced Donoghues point, saying that Clark would be leading a graveyard.
            Faced with mass resignations and recognizing that the breakage could be too severe,
               Donald Trump decided to rescind his offer to Clark and drop his plans to use the Justice
               Department to aid in his efforts to overturn the election outcome.316  The President looked at Clark and said, I appreciate your willingness to do it.
               I appreciate you being willing to suffer the abuse. But the reality is, youre not
               going to get anything done. These guys are going to quit. Everyone else is going to
               resign. Its going to be a disaster. The bureaucracy will eat you alive. And no matter
               how much you want to get things done in the next few weeks, you wont be able to get
               it done, and its not going to be worth the breakage.317
            *  *  *
            Evidence gathered by the Committee also suggests that President Trump offered Sidney
               Powell the position of Special Counsel for election related matters during a highly
               charged White House meeting on December 18, 2020.318  White House lawyers vehemently opposed  Powells appointment, and it also was not
               ultimately made formal. 
            Summoning a Mob to Washington, and Knowing they were Angry and Armed, Instructing
               them to March to the Capitol
            In the early morning hours of December 19th, shortly after the contentious December
               18th White House meeting with Sidney Powell and others, Donald Trump sent a tweet
               urging his supporters to travel to Washington for January 6th.  In that tweet, President
               Trump attached false allegations that the election was stolen and promised a wild
               time on January 6th.319  This Twitter invitation was followed by over a dozen other instances in which he
               used Twitter to encourage supporters to rally for him in Washington, DC on January
               6th.320
            
            The Committee has assembled detailed material demonstrating the effects of these communications
               on members of far-right extremist groups, like the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, Three
               Percenters, and others, and on individuals looking to respond to their presidents
               call to action.  President Trumps supporters believed the election was stolen because
               they listened to his words,321 and they knew what he had called them to do; stop the certification of the electoral
               count.322
            For example, one supporter, Charles Bradford Smith, noted on December 22, 2020, that
               Trump is asking everyone to go to Washington, DC on January 6th to fill the streets
               on the day Pence counts up the votes.323  Derek Sulenta posted to Facebook on December 23, 2020, that Ill be there Jan 6th
               to support the president no matter what happens because Thats the day he called
               for patriots to show up.324  By December 31, 2020, Robert Morss believed January 6th stood for the moment when
               1776 Will Commence Again because President Trump asked them to Be there, Will be
               Wild.325  Kenneth Grayson predicted what would eventually happen on January 6th, when on December
               23, 2020, he wrote on Facebook that President Trump called people to Washington, DC
               through his December 19th tweet and then added IF TRUMP TELLS US TO STORM THE FUKIN
               CAPITAL IMA DO THAT THEN!326  Some demonstrated their inspiration for January 6th by circulating flyers, which
               proclaimed #OccupyCongress over images of the United States Capitol.327  Robert Gieswein, a Coloradan affiliated with Three Percenters who was among the
               first to breach the Capitol, said that he came to Washington, DC to keep President
               Trump in.328
            Chapter 8 of this report documents how the Proud Boys led the attack, penetrated the
               Capitol, and led hundreds of others inside.  Multiple Proud Boys reacted immediately
               to President Trumps December 19th tweet and began their planning.  Immediately, Proud
               Boys leaders reorganized their hierarchy, with Enrique Tarrio, Joseph Biggs, and Ethan
               Nordean messaging groups of Proud Boys about what to expect on January 6th.329   Tarrio created a group chat known as the Ministry of Self-Defense for hand-selected
               Proud Boys whom he wanted to organize and direct plans for January 6th.330  On social media,  Tarrio referenced revolt and [r]evolution, and conspicuously
               asked What if we invade it? on Telegram.331  As of December 29, 2020,  Tarrio told the group the events on January 6th would
               be centered around the Capitol.332  
            At the time of publication of this report, prosecutions of certain Proud Boys are
               ongoing.  To date, one Proud Boy has pled guilty to seditious conspiracy and other
               Proud Boys have pled guilty to other crimes, including conspiracy to obstruct Congress.333  Jeremy Bertino, a Proud Boy who pled guilty to seditious conspiracy, admitted that
               he:
            understood from internal discussions among the Proud Boys that in the leadup to January
               6, the willingness to resort to unlawful conduct increasingly included a willingness
               to use and promote violence to achieve political objectives.334 
            Moreover, 
            Bertino believed that the 2020 election had been stolen and, as January 6, 2021,
               approached, believed that drastic measures, including violence, were necessary to
               prevent Congress from certifying the Electoral College Vote on January 6, 2021.  Bertino
               made his views in this regard known publicly, as well as in private discussions with
               MOSD leadership.  Bertino understood from his discussions with MOSD leadership that
               they agreed that the election had been stolen, that the purpose of traveling to Washington,
               D.C., on January 6, 2021, was to stop the certification of the Electoral College Vote,
               and that the MOSD leaders were willing to do whatever it would take, including using
               force against police and others, to achieve that objective.335
            As set out in  Bertinos plea agreement, members of MOSD: 
            openly discussed plans for potential violence at the Capitol [. . . and] members of
               MOSD leadership were discussing the possibility of storming the Capitol. Bertino believed
               that storming the Capitol would achieve the groups goal of stopping Congress from
               certifying the Electoral College Vote. Bertino understood that storming the Capitol
               or its grounds would be illegal and would require using force against police or other
               government officials.336
            Another Proud Boy who has pled guilty to conspiracy and assault charges, Charles Donohoe,
               understood that the Proud Boys planned to storm the Capitol.   Donohoe, a Proud Boys
               local chapter leader from North Carolina:
            was aware [as early as January 4, 2021] that members of MOSD leadership were discussing
               the possibility of storming the Capitol. Donohoe believed that storming the Capitol
               would achieve the groups goal of stopping the government from carrying out the transfer
               of presidential power.337 
            The Department of Justice has charged a number of Oath Keepers with seditious conspiracy.
               Specifically, the government alleges that [a]fter the Presidential Election, Elmer
               Stewart Rhodes III conspired with his co-defendants, introduced below, and other co-conspirators,
               known and unknown to the Grand Jury, to oppose by force the lawful transfer of presidential
               power.338 A jury agreed, convicting Stewart Rhodes and Kelly Meggsthe leader of the Florida
               Oath Keepers chapterof seditious conspiracy. The jury also convicted  Rhodes and
               Meggs, as well as fellow Oath Keepers Jessica Watkins, Kenneth Harrelson, and Thomas
               Caldwell,339 of other serious felonies for their actions on January 6th.340
             Meggs celebrated the December 19th tweet, sending an encrypted Signal message to
               Florida Oath Keepers that President Trump wants us to make it WILD thats what hes
               saying. He called us all to the Capitol and wants us to make it wild!!! . . . Gentlemen
               we are heading to DC pack your shit!!341  Similarly, Oath Keeper Joshua Jameswho pleaded guilty to seditious conspiracytold
               Oath Keepers that there was now a NATIONAL CALL TO ACTION FOR DC JAN 6TH following President Trumps words.342 
            Stewart Rhodes, the Oath Keepers founder, felt that the time for peaceful protest
               is over after December 19th and, according to the government, urged President Trump
               to use military force to stop the lawful transfer of presidential power, describing
               January 6, 2021, as a hard constitutional deadline to do so.343  Rhodes created a an invitation-only Signal group chat titled, DC OP: Jan 6 21
               on December 30, 2020, which he and other Oath Keepers, like  Meggs and  James, used
               to plan for January 6th, including by creating a quick reaction force of firearms
               to be stashed in Virginia.344 
            Multiple members of the Oath Keepers have pleaded guilty to seditious conspiracy.
               Brian Ulrich started planning for January 6th right after President Trump sent out
               his December 19th tweet.  The Department of Justice summarized Ulrichs communications,
               as follows:
            Ulrich messaged the Oath Keepers of Georgia Signal group chat, Trump acts now maybe
               a few hundred radicals die trying to burn down cities . . . Trump sits on his hands
               Biden wins . . . millions die resisting the death of the 1st and 2nd amendment. On
               December 20, 2020, an individual in the Oath Keepers of Georgia Signal group chat,
               who later traveled with Ulrich to Washington, D.C., and breached the Capitol grounds
               with Ulrich on January 6, 2021, messaged, January 6th. The great reset. America or
               not.345
            The Justice Departments Statement of Offense for Oath Keeper Joshua James provided
               these details:  
            In advance of and on January 6, 2021, James and others agreed to take part in the
               plan developed by Rhodes to use any means necessary, up to and including the use of
               force, to stop the lawful transfer of presidential power. In the weeks leading up
               to January 6, 2021, Rhodes instructed James and other coconspirators to be prepared,
               if called upon, to report to the White House grounds to secure the perimeter and use
               lethal force if necessary against anyone who tried to remove President Trump from
               the White House, including the National Guard or other government actors who might
               be sent to remove President Trump as a result of the Presidential Election.346
            The former Presidents call also galvanized Three Percenters to act.  A group known
               as The Three Percenters Original sent a message to its members on December 16, 2020,
               noting they stand ready and are standing by to answer the call from our President
               should the need arise to combat the  pure evil that is conspiring to steal our country
               away from the american people through the 2020 presidential election.347  After President Trumps tweet, the group put out another letter instructing any
               member who can attend . . . to participate on January 6th because [t]he President
               of the United States has put out a general call for the patriots of this Nation to
               gather in Washington, DC.348 
            Other Three Percenter groups also responded. Alan Hostetter and Russell Taylor led
               a group of Three Percenters calling themselves the California PatriotsDC Brigade,
               who have been charged with conspiracy to obstruct Congress because they organized
               to fight to keep President Trump in power on January 6th after President Trumps December
               19th tweet inspired them to come to Washington, DC.349 On December 19th,  Hostetter posted on Instagram: 
            President Trump tweeted that all patriots should descend on Washington DC on Wednesday
               l/6/2021. This is the date of the Joint Session of Congress in which they will either
               accept or reject the fake/phony/stolen electoral college votes.350
            Between December 19th and January 6th, Hostetter, Taylor, and other members of the
               California PatriotsDC Brigade exchanged messages and posted to social media about
               bringing gear, including weaponry, like hatchet[s], bat[s], or [l]arge metal
               flashlights, and possibly firearms, and, about being ready and willing to fight
               like it was 1776.  Taylor even spoke in front of the Supreme Court on January 5,
               2021, explaining that [p]atriots would not return to our peaceful way of life until
               this election is made right . . . .351 On December 29, 2020, Taylor exclaimed I personally want to be on the front steps
               and be one of the first ones to breach the doors!352
            Similarly, members of the Florida Guardians of Freedom, Three Percent sent around
               a flyer on December 24, 2020, saying they were responding to the call from President
               Donald J. Trump to assist in the security, protection, and support of the people as
               we all protest the fraudulent election and re-establish liberty for our nation.353  Their leader, Jeremy Liggett, posted a meme to Facebook stating that 3% Will Show
               In Record Numbers In DC354 and put out a safety video instructing people that they could bring an expandable
               metal baton, a walking cane and a folding knife355 to Washington, DC on January 6th.  Several have been arrested for participating in
               the violence around the tunnel on January 6th.356 
            When interviewed by the FBI on March 31, 2021, Danny Rodrigueza Three Percenter from
               California who tased Officer Michael Fanone in the neck as rioters tried to break
               through a door on the west side of the Capitolreflected on his decision to go to
               Washington, DC357: 
            Trump called us to D.C. . . . and hes calling for helpI thought he was calling for
               help. I thought he wasI thought we were doing the right thing. . . . [W]e thought
               we were going to hit it like a civil war. There was going to be a big battle. . .
               . I thought that the main fight, the main battle, was going to be in D.C. because
               Trump called everyone there.358
            These groups were not operating in silos.  Meggs bragged on Facebook that following
               President Trumps December 19th tweet he had formed an alliance between the Oath Keepers,
               the Florida Three Percenters, and the Proud Boys to work together to shut this shit
               down.359  On December 19th, Meggs called Enrique Tarrio and they spoke for more than three
               minutes.360  Three days later, Meggs messaged Liggett, echoing his excitement about the December
               19th tweet and specifically referencing the seat of Congress: He called us all to
               the Capitol and wants us to make it wild!!!361  Liggett said I will have a ton of men with me and  Meggs replied that we have
               made Contact [sic] with PB [Proud Boys] and they always have a big group. Force multiplier.
               . . . I figure we could splinter off the main group of PB and come up behind them.
               Fucking crush them for good.362  Aside from Meggs, Stewart Rhodes brought in at least one local militia leader363 and Three Percenters into the Oath Keepers January 6th planning chats that came about
               following President Trumps tweet.364
            Even on January 6th, rioters referenced the tweet. An unknown rioter was caught on
               video as they ascended the Capitol steps saying He said it was gonna be wild. He
               didnt lie.365  MPD body-worn cameras captured Cale Clayton around 3:15 p.m. as he taunted officers
               from under the scaffolding: Your fucking president told us to be here. You should
               be on this side, right here, going with us. You are an American citizen. Your fucking
               President told you to do that. You too. You too. You. All of you guys. That Tweet
               was for you guys. For us. For you.366 
            As January 6th neared, intelligence emerged indicating that January 6th was likely
               to be violent, and specifically that the Capitol was a target.  On January 3rd, an
               intelligence summary informed Department of Justice officials of plans to occupy
               the Capitol and invade the Capitol on January 6th.  This summarized a SITE Intelligence Group report about the online rhetoric focused on the 6 Jan event.  Some of the reporting includes:  Calls to occupy federal buildings. intimidating Congress and invading the capitol building.  The email also quoted WUSA9 local reporting: one of the websites used for organizing the event was encouraging attendees to bring
                  guns.367
            Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue testified:  
            And we knew that if you have tens of thousands of very upset people showing up in
               Washington, DC, that there was potential for violence.368
            At the same time, a Defense Department official predicted on a White House National
               Security Council call that violence could be targeted at the Capitol on January 6th.
               According to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley: 
            So during these calls, I  I only remember in hindsight because he was almost like
               clairvoyant. [Deputy Secretary of Defense David] Norquist says during one of these
               calls, the greatest threat is a direct assault on the Capitol. Ill never forget it.369  
            Likewise, documentation received by the Committee from the Secret Service demonstrates
               a growing number of warnings both that January 6th was likely to be violent, and specifically
               that the Capitol would likely be the target, including intelligence directly regarding
               the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers militia groups. 
            Even two weeks ahead of January 6th, the intelligence started to show what could happen.
               On December 22, 2020, the FBI received a screenshot of an online chat among Oath Keepers,
               seemingly referring to the State capitols besieged by protesters across the country
               earlier that year: if they were going to go in, then they should have went all the
               way.370  There is only one way. It is not signs. Its not rallies. Its fucking bullets,
               one user replied.371
            A public source emailed the Secret Service a document titled Armed and Ready, Mr.
               President, on December 24th, which summarized online comments responding to President
               Trumps December 19th tweet.372  Protestors should start marching into the chambers, one user wrote.373  Trump cant exactly openly tell you to revolt, another replied. This is the closest
               hell ever get.374  I read [the Presidents tweet] as armed, someone said.375  [T]here is not enough cops in DC to stop what is coming, replied yet another.376  [B]e already in place when Congress tries to get to their meeting, the comments
               continued, and make sure they know who to fear.377  [W]aiting for Trump to say the word, a person said, and this is what Trump expects,
               exclaimed another.378  Capitol Polices head of intelligence, Jack Donohue, got the same compilation from
               a former colleague at the New York Police Department on December 28, 2020.379
            On December 26, 2020, the Secret Service received a tip about the Proud Boys detailing
               plans to have a large enough group to march into DC armed [that] will outnumber the
               police so they cant be stopped.380  Their plan is to literally kill people, the informant stated. Please please take
               this tip seriously . . . .381  On December 29, 2020, Secret Service forwarded related warnings to Capitol Police
               that pro-Trump demonstrators were being urged to occupy federal building[s], including
               march[ing] into the capital building and mak[ing] them quake in their shoes by our
               mere presence.382
            Civilians also tipped off Capitol Police about people bringing weapons to besiege
               the Capitol. One tipster, who had track[ed] online far right extremism for years,
               emailed Capitol Police warning Ive seen countless tweets from Trump supporters saying
               they will be armed, and I[]ve also seen tweets from people organizing to storm
               the Capitol on January 6th.383
            On December 29, 2020, Secret Service forwarded related warnings to Capitol Police
               that pro-Trump demonstrators were being urged to occupy federal building, including
               march[ing] into the capital building and mak[ing] them quake in their shoes by our
               mere presence.384  Indeed, a Secret Service intelligence briefing on December 30th entitled March
               for Trump, highlighted the Presidents Will be wild! tweet alongside hashtags #WeAreTheStorm,
               #1776Rebel, and #OccupyCapitols, writing President Trump supporters have proposed
               a movement to occupy Capitol Hill.385
            On January 1, 2021, a lieutenant in the intelligence branch at DC Police forwarded
               a civilian tip about a website planning terroristic behavior on Jan 6th, during the
               rally to Capitol Police intelligence.386  There are detailed plans to storm federal buildings, including the capitol in
               DC on Jan 6th, the tipster reported, linking to thedonald.win.387
            On January 2, 2021, the FBI discovered a social media posting that read, This is
               not a rally and its no longer a protest. This is a final stand . . . many are ready
               to die to take back #USA . . . . And dont be surprised if we take the #capital building.388
            On January 3, 2021, a Parler users postunder the name 1776(2.0) Minutemannoting
               after weds we are going to need a new congress and Jan 6 may actually be their
               [Members of Congress] last day in office reached the FBI and Capitol Police.389
            The FBI field office in Norfolk, Virginia issued an alert to law enforcement agencies
               on January 5th tiled Potential for Violence in Washington, D.C. Area in Connection
               with Planned StopTheSteal Protest on 6 January 2021, which noted:
            An online thread discussed specific calls for violence to include stating, Be ready
               to fight. Congress needs to hear glass breaking, doors being kicked in, and blood.
               . . being spilled. Get violent. . .stop calling this a march, or rally, or a protest.
               Go there ready for war. We get our President or we die. NOTHING else will achieve
               this goal.390 
            In addition, the alert copied perimeter maps [of the Capitol] and caravan pictures
               [that] were posted on thedonald.win, particularly worrying that the caravans . .
               . had the same colors as the sections of the perimeter of the Capitol.391  Secret Service also knew about caravans planning to come to DC to Occupy the Capitol.392
            That same day, representatives from DHS, FBI, DCs Homeland Security and Emergency
               Management Agency, Secret Service, DC Police, and Capitol Police shared a website,
               Red State Secession, which had a post titled Why the Second American Revolution Starts
               Jan 6. A user asked visitors to post where they could find the home addresses of
               Democratic congressmen and political enemies and asked if any of our enemies [will]
               be working in offices in DC that afternoon. 393  What are their routes to and from the event? the post continued.394  [T]he crowd will be looking for enemies.395 
            A Secret Service open-source unit flagged an account on thedonald.win that threatened
               to bring a sniper rifle to a rally on January 6th.  The user also posted a picture
               of a handgun and rifle with the caption, Sunday Gun Day Providing Overwatch January
               6th Will be Wild.396
            The Secret Service learned from the FBI on January 5th about right-wing groups establishing
               armed quick reaction forces in Virginia, where they could amass firearms illegal in
               DC.397  Trump supporters staged there waiting across the river to respond to calls for
               help.398  The Oath Keepers were such a group.399
            President Trumps closest aides knew about the political power of sites like thedonald.win,
               which is where much of this violent rhetoric and planning happened.  On December 30,
               2020, Jason Millera Senior Adviser to and former spokesman for the former Presidenttexted
               Chief of Staff Mark Meadows a link to the thedonald.win, adding I got the base FIRED
               UP.400  The link connected to a page with comments like Gallows dont require electricity,
               if the filthy commie maggots try to push their fraud through, there will be hell
               to pay, and Congress can certify Trump the winner or leave in a bodybag.401 Symbolic gallows were constructed on January 6th at the foot of the Capitol.402 
            
                  Noose set up outside of the Capitol on January 6th.
                  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
               
            
            After President Trumps signal, his supporters did not hide their plans for violence
               at the Capitol, and those threats made their way to national and local law enforcement
               agencies.  As described in this report, the intelligence agencies did detect this
               planning, and they shared it with the White House and with the U.S. Secret Service.
            Testimony from White House staff also suggests real concerns about the risk of violence
               as January 6th approached.  Cassidy Hutchinson, for example, testified about a conversation
               she had with her boss, Mark Meadows, on January 2nd:
            
                  Mark Meadows walks along the South Lawn on October 30, 2020.
                  (Photo by Sarah Silbiger/Getty Images)
               
            
            I went into Marks office, and he was still on his phone. . . . . I said to Mark,
               Rudy [Giuliani] said these things to me. Whats going on here? Anything I should
               know about?  
            This washe was, like, looking at his phone. He was like, Oh, its all about the
               rally on Wednesday. Isnt that what he was talking to you about? 
            I said, Yeah. Yeah, sounds like were going to the Capitol.  
            He said, Yeah. Are you talking with Tony?
            Im having a conversation, sir.  
            He saidstill looking at his phone. I remember he was scrolling. He was like, Yeah.
               You know, things might get real, real bad on the 6th.  
            And I remember saying to him, What do you mean?  
            He was like, I dont know. Theres just going to be a lot of people here, and theres
               a lot of different ideas right now. Im not really sure of everything thats going
               on. Lets just make sure we keep tabs on it.403  
             Hutchinson also testified about a conversation she had with Director of National
               Intelligence, Ratcliffe:
            He had expressed to me that he was concerned that it could spiral out of control and
               potentially be dangerous, either for our democracy or the way that things were going
               for the 6th.404
            Hope Hicks texted Trump Campaign spokesperson Hogan Gidley in the midst of the January
               6th violence, explaining that she had suggested . . . several times on the preceding
               days (January 4th and January 5th) that President Trump publicly state that January
               6th must remain peaceful and that he had refused her advice to do so.405  Her recollection was that  Herschmann earlier advised President Trump to make a
               preemptive public statement in advance of January 6th calling for no violence that
               day.406  No such statement was made.
            The District of Columbia Homeland Security office explicitly warned that groups were
               planning to occupy the [Capitol] to halt the vote.407  
            [W]e got derogatory information from OSINT suggesting that some very, very violent
               individuals were organizing to come to DC, and not only were they organized to come
               to DC, but they were  these groups, these nonaligned groups were aligning. And so
               all the red flags went up at that point, you know, when you have armed militia, you
               know, collaborating with White supremacy groups, collaborating with conspiracy theory
               groups online all toward a common goal, you start seeing what we call in, you know,
               terrorism, a blended ideology, and thats a very, very bad sign. . . . [T]hen when
               they were clearly across  not just across one platform but across multiple platforms
               of these groups coordinating, not just like chatting, Hey, hows it going, whats
               the weather like where youre at, but like, what are you bringing, what are you
               wearing, you know, where do we meet up, do you have plans for the Capitol. Thats
               operationalthats like preoperational intelligence, right, and that is something
               thats clearly alarming.408
            Again, this type of intelligence was shared, including obvious warnings about potential
               violence prior to January 6th.409  What was not shared, and was not fully understood by intelligence and law enforcement
               entities, is what role President Trump would play on January 6th in exacerbating the
               violence, and later refusing for multiple hours to instruct his supporters to stand
               down and leave the Capitol.  No intelligence collection was apparently performed on
               President  Trumps plans for January 6th, nor was there any analysis performed on
               what he might do to exacerbate potential violence.  Certain Republican members of
               Congress who were working with Trump and the Giuliani team may have had insight on
               this particular risk, but none appear to have alerted the Capitol Police or any other
               law enforcement authority. 
            On January 2, 2021, Katrina Pierson wrote in an email to fellow rally organizers,
               POTUS expectations are to have something intimate at the [E]llipse, and call on everyone
               to march to the Capitol.410  And, on January 4, 2021, another rally organizer texted Mike Lindell, the MyPillow
               CEO, that President Trump would unexpectedly call on his supporters to march to
               the Capitol:
            This stays only between us . . . . It can also not get out about the march because
               I will be in trouble with the national park service and all the agencies but POTUS
               is going to just call for it unexpectedly.411
            Testimony obtained by the Committee also indicates that President Trump was specifically
               aware that the crowd he had called to Washington was fired up and angry on the evening
               of January 5th.  Judd Deere, a deputy White House press secretary recalled a conversation
               with President Trump in the Oval Office on the evening of January 5th:
            Judd Deere: I said he should focus on policy accomplishments. I didnt mention the
               2020 election.
            Committee Staff: Okay. What was his response?
            Deere: He acknowledged that and said, Weve had a lot, something along those lines,
               but didnthe fairly quickly moved to how fired up the crowd is, or was going to be.
            Committee Staff: Okay. What did he say about it?
            Deere: Just that they werethey were fired up. They were angry. They feel like the
               elections been stolen, that the election was rigged, thathe went on and on about
               that for a little bit.412
            Testimony indicated that President Trump was briefed on the risk of violence on the
               morning of the 6th before he left the White House.  Cassidy Hutchinson provided this
               testimony: 
            Vice Chair Cheney:  So, Ms. Hutchinson, is it your understanding that Mr. Ornato told
               the President about weapons at the rally on the morning of January 6th?
            Hutchinson:  That is what Mr. Ornato relayed to me.413
            The head of President Trumps security detail, Bobby Engel, told the Select Committee
               that when he shared critical information with White House Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony
               Ornato, it was a means of conveying that information with the Oval Office: So, when
               it came to passing information to Mr. Ornato, Imy assumption was that it would get
               to the chief [of staff, Mark Meadows], or that he was sharing the information with
               the chief.  I dontand the filtering process, or if the chief thinks it needs to
               get to the President, then he would share it with the President.414  Also,  Engel confirmed that if information would come to my attention, whether
               it was a protective intelligence issue or a concern orprimarily, I wouldI would
               make sure that the information got filtered up through the appropriate chain usually
               through Mr. Ornato.  So if I received a report on something that was happening in
               the DC area, Id either forward that information to Mr. Ornato, or call him about
               that information or communicate in some way.415
            The Select Committee also queried Deputy Chief of Staff Ornato this November about
               what he generally would have done in this sort of situation, asking him the following:
               Generally you receive information about things like the groups that are coming, the
               stuff that we talked earlier.  You would bring that to Mr. Meadows and likely did
               here, although you dont have a specific recollection?416   Ornato responded: That is correct, sir.417  Ornato also explained to the Committee that . . . in my normal daily functions,
               in my general functions as my job, I wouldve had a conversation with him about all
               the groups coming in and what was expected from the secret service.418  As for the morning of January 6th itself, he had the following answer:
            Committee Staff:  Do you remember talking to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows about any
               of your concerns about the threat landscape going into January 6th?
            Ornato:  I dont recall; however, in my position I wouldve made sure he was tracking
               the demos, which he received a daily brief, Presidential briefing.  So he most likely
               was getting all this in his daily brief as well.  I wouldnt know what was in his
               intelligence brief that day, but I wouldve made sure that he was tracking these things
               and just mentioned, Hey, are you tracking the demos?  If he gave me a yeah, I
               dont recall it today, but Im sure that was something that took place.419
            Ornato had access to intelligence that suggested violence at the Capitol on January
               6th, and it was his job to inform Meadows and President Trump of that.  Although Ornato
               told us that he did not recall doing so, the Select Committee found multiple parts
               of Ornatos testimony questionable.  The Select Committee finds it difficult to believe
               that neither Meadows nor Ornato told President Trump, as was their job, about the
               intelligence that was emerging as the January 6th rally approached. 
            
                  President Trump looks backstage at the crowd gathered at the Ellipse.
                  (Photo provided to the Select Committee by the National Archives and Records Administration)
               
            
            Hours before the Ellipse rally on January 6th, the fact that the assembled crowd was
               prepared for potential violence was widely known.  In addition to intelligence reports
               indicating potential violence at the Capitol, weapons and other prohibited items were
               being seized by police on the streets and by Secret Service at the magnetometers for
               the Ellipse speech.  Secret Service confiscated a haul of weapons from the 28,000
               spectators who did pass through the magnetometers: 242 cannisters of pepper spray,
               269 knives or blades, 18 brass knuckles, 18 tasers, 6 pieces of body armor, 3 gas
               masks, 30 batons or blunt instruments, and 17 miscellaneous items like scissors, needles,
               or screwdrivers.420  And thousands of others purposely remained outside the magnetometers, or left their
               packs outside.421  
            Others brought firearms.  Three men in fatigues from Broward County, Florida brandished
               AR-15s in front of Metropolitan police officers on 14th Street and Independence Avenue
               on the morning of January 6th.422  MPD advised over the radio that one individual was possibly armed with a Glock
               at 14th and Constitution Avenue, and another was possibly armed with a rifle at
               15th and Constitution Avenue around 11:23 a.m.423  The National Park Service detained an individual with a rifle between 12 and 1 p.m.424  Almost all of this was known before Donald Trump took the stage at the Ellipse.
               
            By the time President Trump was preparing to give his speech, he and his advisors
               knew enough to cancel the rally.  And he certainly knew enough to cancel any plans
               for a march to the Capitol.  According to testimony obtained by the Select Committee,
               President Trump knew that elements of the crowd were armed, and had prohibited items,
               and that many thousands would not pass through the magnetometers for that reason.
               Testimony indicates that the President had received an earlier security briefing,
               and testimony indicates that the Secret Service mentioned the prohibited items again
               as they drove President Trump to the Ellipse.
            Cassidy Hutchinson was with the President backstage.  Her contemporaneous text messages
               indicate that President  Trump was effing furious about the fact that a large number
               of his supporters would not go through the magnetometers:
            Cassidy Hutchinson:  But the crowd looks good from this vanish [sic] point.  As long
               as we get the shot.  He was fucking furious
            Tony Ornato:  He doesnt get it that the people on the monument side dont want to
               come in.  They can see from there and dont want to come in.  They can see from there
               and dont have to go through mags.  With 30k magged inside.
            Cassidy Hutchinson:  Thats what was relayed several times and in different iterations
            Cassidy Hutchinson:  Poor max got chewed out
            Cassidy Hutchinson:  He also kept mentioning [an off the record trip] to Capitol before
               he took the stage
            Tony Ornato:  Bobby will tell him no.  Its not safe to do.  No assets available to
               safely do it.425
            And Hutchinson described what President Trump said as he prepared to take the stage:
               
            When we were in the off-stage announce area tent behind the stage, he was very concerned
               about the shot.  Meaning the photograph that we would get because the rally space
               wasnt full.  One of the reasons, which Ive previously stated, was because he wanted
               it to be full and for people to not feel excluded because they had come far to watch
               him at the rally.  And he felt the mags were at fault for not letting everybody in,
               but another leading reason and likely the primary reasons is because he wanted it
               full and he was angry that we werent letting people through the mags with weaponswhat
               the Secret Service deemed as weapons, and are, are weapons.  But when we were in the
               off-stage announce tent, I was a part of a conversation, I was in the vicinity of
               a conversation where I overheard the President say something to the effect of, I
               dont Fing care that they have weapons.  Theyre not here to hurt me.  Take the Fing
               mags away.  Let my people in.  They can march to the Capitol from here.  Let the people
               in.  Take the Fing mags away.426
            The Secret Service special agent who drove the President after his speech told the
               Select Committee that Trump made a similar remark in the vehicle when his demand to
               go to the Capitol was refusedessentially that Trump did not believe his supporters
               posed a security risk to him personally.427
            Minutes after the exchange that  Hutchinson describedwhen President Trump took the
               stagehe pointedly expressed his concern about the thousands of attendees who would
               not enter the rally area and instructed Secret Service to allow that part of the crowd
               to enter anyway: 
            . . . Id love to have if those tens of thousands of people would be allowed. The
               military, the secret service. And we want to thank you and the police law enforcement.
               Great. Youre doing a great job. But Id love it if they could be allowed to come
               up here with us. Is that possible? Can you just let [them] come up, please?428
            Although President  Trump and his advisors knew of the risk of violence, and knew
               specifically that elements of the crowd were angry and some were armed, from intelligence
               and law enforcement reports that morning, President Trump nevertheless went forward
               with the rally, and then specifically instructed the crowd to march to the Capitol:
               Because youll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength
               and you have to be strong. We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing
               and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated.429  Much of President Trumps speech was improvised.  Even before his improvisation,
               during the review of President Trumps prepared remarks, White House lawyer Eric Herschmann
               specifically requested that if there were any factual allegations, someone needed
               to independently validate or verify the statements.430  And in the days just before January 6th, Herschmann chewed out John Eastman and
               told him he was out of [his] Fing mind to argue that the Vice President could be
               the sole decision-maker as to who becomes the next President.431  Herschmann told us, I so berated him that I believed that theory would not go forward.432  But President Trump made that very argument during his speech at the Ellipse and
               made many false statements.  Herschmann attended that speech, but walked out during
               the middle of it.433 
            President Trumps speech to the crowd that day lasted more than an hour.  The speech
               walked through dozens of known falsehoods about purported election fraud.  And Trump
               again made false and malicious claims about Dominion voting systems.434  As discussed earlier, he again pressured Vice President Mike Pence to refuse to
               count lawful electoral votes, going off script repeatedly, leading the crowd to believe
               falsely that Pence could and would alter the election outcome:
            And I actually, I just spoke to Mike. I said: Mike, that doesnt take courage. What
               takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage. And then were stuck with a president
               who lost the election by a lot and we have to live with that for four more years.
               Were just not going to let that happen. . . .
            When you catch somebody in a fraud, youre allowed to go by very different rules.
            So I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope he doesnt listen
               to the RINOs and the stupid people that hes listening to.435
            This characterization of Vice President Pences decision had a direct impact on those
               who marched to and approached the Capitol, as illustrated by this testimony from a
               person convicted of crimes committed on January 6th:
            So this woman came up to the side of us, and she, says, Pence folded. So it was kind
               of, like, okay. Well, in my mind I was thinking, Well, thats it, you know. Well,
               my son-in-law looks at me, and he says, I want to go in.436
            Trump used the word peacefully, written by speech writers, one time.  But he delivered
               many other scripted and unscripted comments that conveyed a very different message:
            Because youll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength
               and you have to be strong. We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing
               and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated. . . .
               
            And we fight. We fight like hell. And if you dont fight like hell, youre not going
               to have a country anymore. . . .437 
            Trump also was not the only rally speaker to do these things.  Giuliani, for instance,
               also said, Lets have trial by combat.438  Likewise, Eastman used his two minutes on the Ellipse stage to make a claim already
               known to be falsethat corrupted voted machines stole the election.439
            The best indication of the impact of President Trumps words, both during the Ellipse
               speech and beforehand, are the comments from those supporters who attended the Ellipse
               rally and their conduct immediately thereafter.  Videoclips show several of the attendees
               on their way to the Capitol or shortly after they arrived:
            Im telling you what, Im hearing that Pence  hearing the Pence just caved. No. Is
               that true? I didnt hear it. Im hear  Im hearing reports that Pence caved. No way.
               Im telling you, if Pence caved, were going to drag motherfuckers through the streets.
               You fucking politicians are going to get fucking drug through the streets.440
            Yes. I guess the hope is that theres such a show of force here that Pence will decide
               do the right thing, according to Trump.441
            Pence voted against Trump. [Interviewer: Ok. And thats when all this started?] Yup.
               Thats when we marched on the Capitol.442
            We just heard that Mike Pence is not going to reject any fraudulent electoral votes.
               [Other speaker: Boo. Youre a traitor! Boo!] Thats right. Youve heard it here first.
               Mike Pence has betrayed the United States of America. [Other speaker: Boo! Fuck you,
               Mike Pence!] Mike Pence has betrayed this President and he has betrayed the people
               of the United States and we will never, ever forget. [Cheers]443
            [Q] What percentage of the crowd is going to the Capitol? [A] [Oath Keeper Jessica
               Watkins]: One hundred percent.  It has, it has spread like wildfire that Pence has
               betrayed us, and everybodys marching on the Capitol.  All million of us.  Its insane.444
            Another criminal defendantcharged with assaulting an officer with a flagpole and
               other crimesexplained in an interview why he went to the Capitol and fought:
            Dale Huttle:  We were not there illegally, we were invited there by the President
               himself. . . . Trumps backers had been told that the election had been stolen. .
               . . 
            Reporter Megan Hickey:  But do you think he encouraged violence?
            Dale Huttle:  Well, I sat there, or stood there, with half a million people listening
               to his speech.  And in that speech, both Giuliani and [Trump] said we were going to
               have to fight like hell to save our country.  Now, whether it was a figure of speech
               or notit wasnt taken that way.  
            Reporter Megan Hickey:  You didnt take it as a figure of speech?
            Dale Huttle:  No.445
            President Trump concluded his speech at 1:10 p.m.
            Among other statements from the Ellipse podium, President Trump informed the crowd
               that he would be marching to the Capitol with them:
            Now, it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy. And
               after this, were going to walk down, and Ill be there with you, were going to walk down, were going to walk down.  Anyone you want, but I think
               right here, were going to walk down to the Capitol, and were going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and were
               probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them.446
            Hutchinson testified that she first became aware of President Trumps plans to attend
               Congresss session to count votes on or about January 2nd.  She learned this from
               a conversation with  Giuliani: Its going to be great.  The Presidents going to
               be there.  Hes going to look powerful.  Heshes going to be with the members. 
               Hes going to be with the Senators.447  Evidence also indicates that multiple members of the White House staff, including
               White House lawyers, were concerned about the Presidents apparent intentions to go
               to the Capitol.448
            After he exited the stage, President Trump entered the Presidential SUV and forcefully
               expressed his intention that Bobby Engel, the head of his Secret Service detail, direct
               the motorcade to the Capitol.  The Committee has now obtained evidence from several
               sources about a furious interaction in the SUV.  The vast majority of witnesses
               who have testified before the Select Committee about this topic, including multiple
               members of the Secret Service, a member of the Metropolitan police, and national security
               officials in the White House, described President Trumps behavior as irate, furious,
               insistent, profane and heated.   Hutchinson heard about the exchange second-hand
               and related what she heard in our June 28, 2022, hearing from Ornato (as did another
               witness, a White House employee with national security responsibilities, who shared
               that Ornato also recounted to him President Trumps irate behavior in the Presidential
               vehicle).  Other members of the White House staff and Secret Service also heard about
               the exchange after the fact.  The White House employee with national security responsibilities
               gave this testimony:
            Committee Staff:  But it sounds like you recall some rumor or some discussion around
               the West Wing about the Presidents anger about being told that he couldnt go to
               the Capitol. Is that right?
            Employee:  So Mr. Ornato said that he was angry that he couldnt go right away. In
               the days following that, I do remember, you know, again, hearing again how angry the
               President was when, you know, they were in the limo. But beyond specifics of that,
               thats pretty much the extent of the cooler talk.449
            The Committee has regarded both Hutchinson and the corroborating testimony by the
               White House employee with national security responsibilities as earnest and has no
               reason to conclude that either had a reason to invent their accounts.  A Secret Service
               agent who worked on one of the details in the White House and was present in the Ellipse
               motorcade had this comment:
            Committee Staff:  Ms. Hutchinson has suggested to the committee that you sympathized
               with her after her testimony, and believed her account.  Is that accurate?
            Special Agent:  I have noyeah, thats accurate.  I have no reasonI mean, wewe became
               friends.  We workedI worked every day with her for 6 months.  Yeah, she became a
               friend of mine.  We had a good working relationship.  I have no reasonshes never
               done me wrong.  Shes never lied that I know of.450
            The Committees principal concern was that the President actually intended to participate
               personally in the January 6th efforts at the Capitol, leading the attempt to overturn
               the election either from inside the House Chamber, from a stage outside the Capitol,
               or otherwise.  The Committee regarded those facts as important because they are relevant
               to President Trumps intent on January 6th.  There is no question from all the evidence
               assembled that President Trump did have that intent.451
            As it became clear that Donald Trump desired to travel to the Capitol on January 6th,
               a White House Security Official in the White House complex became very concerned about
               his intentions:  
            To be completely honest, we were all in a state of shock. . . . it justone, I think
               the actual physical feasibility of doing it, and then also we all knew what that implicated
               and what that meant, that this was no longer a rally, that this was going to move
               to something else if he physically walked to the Capitol. II dont know if you want
               to use the word insurrection, coup, whatever. We all knew that this would move
               from a normal, democratic, you know, public event into something else.452 
            President Trump continued to push to travel to the Capitol even after his return to
               the White House, despite knowing that a riot was underway.  Kayleigh McEnany, the
               White House press secretary, spoke with President Trump about his desire to go to
               the Capitol after he returned to the White House from the Ellipse.  So to the best
               of my recollection, I recall him beingwanting tosaying that he wanted to physically
               walk and be a part of the march and then saying that he would ride the Beast if he
               needed to, ride in the Presidential limo.453
            Later in the afternoon, Mark Meadows relayed to Cassidy Hutchinson that President
               Trump was still upset that he would not be able to go to the Capitol that day.  As
               he told  Hutchinson, the President wasnt happy that Bobby [Engel] didnt pull it
               off for him and that Mark didnt work hard enough to get the movement on the books.454
            187 Minutes:  Trumps Dereliction of Duty
            Just after 1:00 p.m., Vice President Pence, serving as President of the Senate under
               Article I of the Constitution, gaveled the Congress into its Joint Session.  President
               Trump was giving a speech at the Ellipse, which he concluded at 1:10 pm.  For the
               next few hours, an attack on our Capitol occurred, perpetrated by Trump supporters
               many of whom were present at the Ellipse for President Trumps speech.  More than
               140 Capitol and Metropolitan police were injured, some very seriously.455  A perimeter security line of Metropolitan Police intended to secure the Capitol
               against intrusion broke in the face of thousands of armed riotersmore than 2,000
               of whom gained access to the interior of the Capitol building.456  A woman who attempted to forcibly enter the Chamber of the House of Representatives
               through a broken window while the House was in session was shot and killed by police
               guarding the chamber.  Vice President Pence and his family were at risk, as were those
               Secret Service professionals protecting him.  Congressional proceedings were halted,
               and legislators were rushed to secure locations. 
            From the outset of the violence and for several hours that followed, people at the
               Capitol, people inside President Trumps Administration, elected officials of both
               parties, members of President Trumps family, and Fox News commentators sympathetic
               to President Trump all tried to contact him to urge him to do one singular thingone
               thing that all of these people immediately understood was required:  Instruct his
               supporters to stand down and disperseto leave the Capitol.
            As the evidence overwhelmingly demonstrates, President Trump specifically and repeatedly
               refused to do sofor multiple hourswhile the mayhem ensued.  Chapter 8 of this report
               explains in meticulous detail the horrific nature of the violence taking place, that
               was directed at law enforcement officers at the Capitol and that put the lives of
               American lawmakers at risk.  Yet in spite of this, President Trump watched the violence
               on television from a dining room adjacent to the Oval Office, calling Senators to
               urge them to help him delay the electoral count, but refusing to supply the specific
               help that everyone knew was unequivocally required.  As this report shows, when Trump
               finally did make such a statement at 4:17 p.m. after hours of violencethe statement
               immediately had the expected effect; the rioters began to disperse immediately and
               leave the Capitol.457 
            To fully understand the Presidents behavior during those hoursnow commonly known
               as the 187 minutesit is important to understand the context in which it occurred.
               As outlined in this report, by the afternoon of January 6th, virtually all of President
               Trumps efforts to overturn the outcome of the 2020 election had failed.  Virtually
               all the lawsuits had already been lost.  Vice President Mike Pence had refused Trumps
               pressure to stop the count of certain electoral votes.  State officials and legislators
               had refused to reverse the election outcomes in every State where Trump and his team
               applied pressure.  The Justice Departments investigations of alleged election fraud
               had all contradicted Trumps allegations.
            The only factor working in Trumps favor that might succeed in materially delaying
               the counting of electoral votes for President-elect Biden was the violent crowd at
               the Capitol.  And for much of the afternoon of January 6th, it appeared that the crowd
               had accomplished that purpose.  Congressional leaders were advised by Capitol Police
               at one or more points during the attack that it would likely take several days before
               the Capitol could safely be reopened.458 
            By the time the Presidents speech concluded, the lawlessness at the United States
               Capitol had already begun, but the situation was about to get much worse.
            By 1:25 p.m., President Trump was informed that the Capitol was under attack.
            Minutes after arriving back at the White House, the President ran into a member of
               the White House staff and asked if they had watched his speech on television.  Sir,
               they cut it off because theyre rioting down at the Capitol, the employee said. 
               The President asked what they meant by that.  [T]heyre rioting down there at the
               Capitol, the employee repeated.  Oh really? the President asked. All right, lets
               go see.459  A photograph taken by the White House photographerthe last one permitted until
               later in the daycaptures the moment the President was made aware of the violent uprising
               at the Capitol.460  
            Not long thereafter, as thousands of Trump supporters from the Ellipse speech continued
               to arrive at the Capitol, the DC Metropolitan Police Department declared a riot at
               the Capitol at 1:49 p.m., the same time Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund informed
               the DC National Guard that there was a dire emergency on Capitol Hill and requested
               the immediate assistance of as many national guard troops as possible.461
            No photographs exist of the President for the remainder of the afternoon until after
               4 p.m.  President Trump appears to have instructed that the White House photographer
               was not to take any photographs.462  The Select Committee also was unable to locate any official records of President
               Trumps telephone calls that afternoon.463  And the Presidents official Daily Diary contains no information for this afternoon
               between the hours of 1:19 p.m. and 4:03 p.m., at the height of the worst attack on
               the seat of the United States Congress in over two centuries.464
            The Select Committee did, however, obtain records from non-official sources that contained
               data of some phone calls President Trump made that afternoon.  Even though he was
               placing lots of calls that afternoon, according to his personal assistant,465 the Select Committee was given no records of any calls from the President to security
               or law enforcement officials that afternoon, and that absence of data is consistent
               with testimony of witnesses who would have knowledge of any such calls, who said that
               he did not do so.466  Based on testimony from President Trumps close aides, we know that President Trump
               remained in the Dining Room adjacent to the Oval Office for the rest of the afternoon
               until after 4:03 p.m.467
            In fact, from cellular telephone records, it appears that at 1:39 p.m. and 2:03 p.m.,
               after being informed of the riot at the Capitol, President Trump called his lawyer,
               Rudolph Giuliani.  These calls lasted approximately four minutes and eight minutes,
               respectively.468  And Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany testified that President Trump also called
               a number of Senators.469  The number or names of all such Members of Congress is unknown, although Senator
               Mike Lee (RUT) received one such outgoing call from the President within the hour
               that followed.470 
            At 1:49 p.m., just as the DC Metropolitan Police officially declared a riot and the
               Capitol Police were calling for help from the National Guard to address the crisis,
               President Trump sent a tweet with a link to a recording of his speech at the Ellipse.471
            At about that point, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone became aware of the Capitol
               riot.  The Committee collected sworn testimony from several White House officials,
               each with similar accounts.  The Presidents White House Counsel Pat Cipollone testified
               that he raced downstairs, and went to the Oval Office Dining Room as soon as he learned
               about the violence at the Capitollikely just around or just after 2 p.m.  Cipollone
               knew immediately that the President had to deliver a message to the riotersasking
               them to leave the Capitol.  
            Here is how he described this series of events:
            . . . the first time I remember going downstairs was when people had breached the
               Capitol. . . But I went down with [Deputy White House Counsel] Pat [Philbin], and
               I remember we were both very upset about what was happening.  And we both wanted,
               you know, action to be taken related to that. . . But we went down to the Oval Office,
               we went through the Oval office, and we went to the back where the President was.
               . . . I think he was already in the dining room. . . I cant talk about conversations
               [with the President]. I think I was pretty clear there needed to be an immediate and
               forceful response, statement, public statement, that people need to leave the Capitol
               now.472
            Cipollone also left little doubt that virtually everyone among senior White House
               staff had the same view:
            There were a lot of people in the White House that day . . .  Senior people who, you
               know, felt the same way that I did and who were working very hard to achieve that
               result.  There wereI think Ivanka was one of them.  And Eric Herschmann was there,
               Pat Philbin was there, and a number of other people. . . . many people suggested it.
               . . .  Many people felt the same way.  Im sure I had conversations with Mark [Meadows]
               about this during the course of the day and expressed my opinion very forcefully that
               this needs to be done.473
            Likewise, senior staff cooperated to produce a message for the President on a notecard,
               which read:
            ANYONE WHO ENTERED THE CAPITOL ILLEGALLY WITHOUT PROPER AUTHORITY SHOULD LEAVE IMMEDIATELY474
            The President declined to make the statement.   Cipollone also made it clear that
               the advice they were giving to the President never changed throughout this three-hour
               period.  Trump refused to do what was necessary.
            Committee Staff: [I]t sounds like you from the very onset of violence at the Capitol
               right around 2 oclock were pushing for a strong statement that people should leave
               the Capitol.  Is that right?
            Cipollone: I was, and others were as well.475
            Cassidy Hutchinson, who worked closely with Mark Meadows and sat directly outside
               his office, confirmed this account and described several additional details:
            I see Pat Cipollone barreling down the hallway towards our office. And he rushed right
               in, looked at me, said, Is Mark in his office? And I said,  Yes. And on a normal
               day he wouldve said, Can I pop in, or, Is he talking to anyone,  or, Is it an
               appropriate time for me to go chat with him, and myself or Eliza would go let  him
               in or tell him no. But after I had said yes, he just looked at me and started shaking
               his head and went over, opened Marks office door, stood there with the door propped
               open, and said something to theMark was still sitting on his phone. I remember, like,
               glancing in. He was still sitting on his phone.
            And I remember Pat saying to him something to the effect of, The rioters have gotten
               to the Capitol, Mark. We need to go down and see the President now. And Mark looked
               up at him and said, He doesnt want to do anything, Pat. And Pat said something
               to the effect ofand very clearly said this to Marksomething to the effect of, Mark,
               something needs to be done, or people are going to die and the bloods gonna be on
               your Fing hands. This is getting out of control. Im going down there.476
            The Select Committee believes that the entire White House senior staff was in favor
               of a Presidential statement specifically instructing the violent rioters to leave.
               But President Trump refused.  White House Counsel Pat Cipollone answered certain questions
               from the Select Committee on this subject as follows:
            Vice Chair Cheney: And when you talk about others on the staff thinking more should
               be done, or thinking that the President needed to tell people to go home, who would
               you put in that category?
            Cipollone: Well, I would put . . . Pat Philbin, Eric Herschmann. Overall, Mark Meadows,
               Ivanka. Once Jared got there, Jared. General Kellogg. Im probably missing some, but
               those areKayleigh I think was there. But I dontDan Scavino.
            Vice Chair Cheney: And who on the staff did not want people to leave the Capitol?
               
            Cipollone: On the staff?
            Vice Chair Cheney In the White House?
            Cipollone: I cant think of anybody on that day who didnt want people to get out
               of the Capitol once theparticularly once the violence started. No. I mean
            Mr. Schiff: What about the President?
            Vice Chair Cheney: Yeah.
            . . .
            [Consultation between Mr. Cipollone and his counsel.]
            Cipollone: Yeah. I cant reveal communications. But obviously I think, you know yeah.477
            The testimony of a White House employee with national security responsibilities also
               corroborated these facts.  This employee testified about a conversation between Pat
               Cipollone and Eric Herschmann in which Herschmann indicated that the President did
               not want to do anything to halt the violence.  That employee told the Select Committee
               that he overheard Herschmann saying something to the effect of the President didnt
               want anything done.478
            Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere also testified to the Select Committee that as soon
               as it was clear that the Capitols outer perimeter had been breached, he urged that
               the President make a statement telling the rioters to go home:
            Committee Staff: And so what did you do at that point?
            Judd Deere: If I recall, I went back up to [Press Secretary] Kayleigh [McEnany]s
               office and indicated that we now likely needed to say something.
            Committee Staff: Okay. And why did you think it was necessary to say something?
            Deere: Well, I mean, it appears that individuals are storming the U.S. Capitol building.
               They also appear to be supporters of Donald Trump, who may have been in attendance
               at the rally.  Were going to need to say something.
            Committee Staff: And did you have a view as to what should be said by the White House?
            Deere: If I recall, I told Kayleigh that I thought that we needed to encourage individuals
               to stop, to respect law enforcement, and to go home. . . .  And it wasit was incumbent
               upon us to encourage those individuals, should they be supporters of ours, to stop.479
            Testimony from both Deputy Press Secretary Matthews and White House Counsel Cipollone
               indicated that it would have been easy, and nearly instantaneous, for Trump to make
               a public statement insisting that the crowd disperse.  As Matthews explained, he could
               have done so in under a minute:
            . . . it would take probably less than 60 seconds from the Oval Office dining room
               over to the Press Briefing Room. And, for folks that might not know, the Briefing
               Room is the room that you see the White House Press Secretary do briefings from with
               the podium and the blue backdrop. And there is a camera that is on in there at all
               times. And so, if the President had wanted to make a statement and address the American
               people, he could have been on camera almost instantly.480
            Cipollone also shared that assessment:
            Committee Staff:  Would it have been possible at any moment for the President to walk
               down to the podium in the briefing room and talk to the nation at any time between
               when you first gave him that advice at 2 oclock and 4:17 when the video statement
               went out?  Would that have been possible?
            Cipollone: Would it have been possible?
            Committee Staff:  Yes.
            Cipollone: Yes, it would have been possible.481
            At 2:13 p.m., rioters broke into the Capitol and flooded the building.482
            As the violence began to escalate, many Trump supporters and others outside the White
               House began urgently seeking his intervention.  Mark Meadowss phone was flooded with
               text messages.  These are just some of them:
            2:32 p.m. from Fox News anchor Laura Ingraham: Hey Mark, The president needs to tell
               people in the Capitol to go home.483
            2:35 p.m. from Mick Mulvaney: Mark:  he needs to stop this, now.  Can I do anything
               to help?484  
            2:46 p.m. from Rep. William Timmons (RSC): The president needs to stop this ASAP485
            2:53 p.m. from Donald Trump, Jr.: Hes got to condem [sic] this shit. Asap. The captiol
               [sic] police tweet is not enough.486
            3:04 p.m. from Rep. Jeff Duncan (RSC): POTUS needs to calm this shit down487
            3:09 p.m. from former White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus: TELL THEM TO GO
               HOME !!!488
            3:13 p.m. from Alyssa Farah Griffin: Potus has to come out firmly and tell protestors
               to dissipate.  Someone is going to get killed.489
            3:15 p.m. from Rep. Chip Roy (RTX): Fix this now.490
            3:31 p.m. from Fox News anchor Sean Hannity: Can he make a statement.  I saw the
               tweet.  Ask people to peacefully leave the capital [sic]491
            3:58 p.m. from Fox News anchor Brian Kilmeade: Please get him on tv.  Destroying
               every thing you guys have accomplished492
            Others on Capitol Hill appeared in the media, or otherwise appeared via internet.
               Representative Mike Gallagher (RWI) issued a video appealing directly to the President:
            Mr. President, you have got to stop this.  You are the only person who can call this
               off.  Call it off.  The election is over.  Call it off!493  
            Some Members of Congress sent texts to President Trumps immediate staff or took to
               Twitter, where they knew the President spent time:
            Sen. Bill Cassidy (RLA) issued a tweet: @realDonaldTrump please appear on TV, condemn
               the violence and tell people to disband.494
            Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (RWA) sent a text to Mark Meadows: We need to hear from
               the president.  On TV.  I hate that Biden jumped him on it.495
            Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy tried repeatedly to reach President Trump, and did
               at least once.  He also reached out for help to multiple members of President Trumps
               family, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner.496 Kushner characterized Leader McCarthys demeanor on the call as scared:
            Kushner: I could hear in his voice that he really was nervous, and so, obviously,
               I took that seriously. And, you know, I didnt know if Id be able to have any impact,
               but I said, you know, its better to at least try. And so Ilike I said, I turned
               the shower off, threw on a suit, and, you know, and rushed into the White House as
               quickly as I could.
            Committee Staff: Yeah. What did he ask you to do? When you say have an impact, what
               is it specifically that he needed your help with?
            Kushner: I dont recall a specific ask, just anything you could do. Again, I got the
               sense that, you know, they werethey wereyou know, they were scared.
            Committee Staff: They meaning Leader McCarthy and people on the Hill because of
               the violence?
            Kushner: That he was scared, yes.497
            Kevin McCarthy told Fox News at 3:09 p.m. about his call with the President498 and elaborated about its contents in a conversation with CBS Newss Norah ODonnell
               at around 3:30 p.m.:
            ODonnell:  Have you spoken with the President and asked him to perhaps come to the
               Capitol and tell his supporters its time to leave?
            Leader McCarthy:  I have spoken to the President.  I asked him to talk to the nation
               and tell them to stop this. . . .
            * * *
            ODonnell:  The President invited tens of thousands of people to quote unquote stop
               the steal.  I dont know if you heard his more-than-hour-long remarks or the remarks
               of his son, who was the wind-up.  It was some heated stuff, Leader McCarthy.  I just
               wonder whether someone is going to accurately call a spade a spade, and I am giving
               you the opportunity right now that your precious and beloved United States Capitol
               and our democracy is witnessing this.  Call a spade a spade.
            Leader McCarthy:  I was very clear with the President when I called him.  This has
               to stop.  And he has to, hes gotta go to the American public and tell them to stop
               this.
            * * *
            ODonnell:  Leader McCarthy, the President of the United States has a briefing room
               steps from the Oval Office.  It is, the cameras are hot 24/7, as you know.  Why hasnt
               he walked down and said that, now?
            Leader McCarthy:  I conveyed to the President what I think is best to do, and Im
               hopeful the President will do it.499
            The Committee has evidence from multiple sources regarding the content of Kevin McCarthys
               direct conversation with Donald Trump during the violence.
            Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (RWA), to whom McCarthy spoke soon after, relayed more
               of the conversation between McCarthy and President Trump:
            And he said [to President Trump], You have got to get on TV.  Youve got to get on
               Twitter.  Youve got to call these people off.  You know what the President said
               to him?  This is as its happening.  He said, Well Kevin, these arent my people.
               You know, these are Antifa.  And Kevin responded and said, No, theyre your people.
               They literally just came through my office windows and my staff are running for cover.
               I mean theyre running for their lives.  You need to call them off.  And the Presidents
               response to Kevin to me was chilling.  He said, Well Kevin, I guess theyre just
               more upset about the election, you know, theft than you are.500
            Rep. Herrera Beutlers account of the incident was also corroborated by former Acting
               White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney, who testified that Leader McCarthy told
               him several days later that President Trump had said during their call: Kevin, maybe
               these people are just more angry about this than you are. Maybe theyre more upset.501 
            Mulvaney was also trying to reach administration officials to urge President Trump
               to instruct his supporters to leave the Capitol.502  As were many elected officials in both parties, including Nancy Pelosi and Chuck
               Schumer, and several Republican Members of Congress.503 
            As already noted, Cipollone and others in the White House repeatedly urged President
               Trump to tell his supporters to leave the Capitol.  Cipollone described his conversations
               with Meadows after they failed to convince President Trump to deliver the necessary
               message:
            Committee Staff:  Do you remember any discussion with Mark Meadows with respect to
               his view that the President didnt want to do anything or was somehow resistant to
               wanting to say something along the lines that you suggested.
            Pat Cipollone: Not justjust to be clear, many people suggested it.  
            Committee Staff: Yeah.
            Cipollone: Not just me.  Many people felt the same way.  Im sure I had conversations
               with Mark about this during the course of the day and expressed my opinion very forcefully
               that this needs to be done.504 
            * * *
            Committee Staff: So your advice was tell people to leave the Capitol, and that took
               over 2 hours when there were subsequent statements made, tweets put forth, that in
               your view were insufficient.  Did you continue, Mr. Cipollone, throughout the period
               of time up until 4:17, continue, you and others, to push for a stronger statement?
            Cipollone: Yes.505
            * * *
            Committee Staff: . . . at the onset of the violence when you first notice on television
               or wherever that rioters have actually breached the Capitol, did you have a conversation
               with Mark Meadows in which Meadows indicated he doesnt want to do anything, he
               meaning the President?
            Cipollone: I dontI had a conversation Im sure with Mark Meadows, Im sure with
               other people, of what I thought should be done.  Did Mark say that to me?  I dont
               have a recollection of him saying that to me, but he may have said something along
               the lines.506 
            At 2:16 p.m., security records indicate that the Vice President was being pulled
               to a safer location.507  
            In an interview with the Select Committee, a White House Security Official on duty
               at the White House explained his observations as he listened to Secret Service communications
               and made contemporaneous entries into a security log.  In particular, he explained
               an entry he made at 2:24 p.m.:
            Committee Staff: Ok.  That last entry on this page is: Service at the Capitol does
               not sound good right now.  
            Official: Correct.
            Committee Staff: What does that mean?
            Official: The members of the VP detail at this time were starting to fear for their
               own lives.  There were a lot ofthere was a lot of yelling, a lot ofI dont knowa
               lot [of] very personal calls over the radio.  Soit was disturbing.  I dont like
               talking about it, but there were calls to say good-bye to family members, so on and
               so forth.  It was gettingfor whatever the reason was on the ground, the VP detail
               thought that this was about to get very ugly.
            Committee Staff: And did you hear that over the radio?
            Official: Correct.
            . . .
            Committee Staff: . . . obviously, youve conveyed thats disturbing, but what prompted
               you to put it into an entry as it states there, Service at the Capitol
            Official: That theyre running out of options, and theyre getting nervous.  It sounds
               like that we came very close to either Service having to use lethal options or worse.
               At that point, I dont know.  Is the VP compromised?  Is the detaillike, I dont
               know.  Like, we didnt have visibility, but it doesntif theyre screaming and saying
               things, like, say good-bye to the family, like, the floor needs to know this is going
               to a whole another level soon.508
            Also at 2:24 p.m., knowing the riot was underway and that Vice President Pence was
               at the Capitol, President Trump sent this tweet:
            Mike Pence didnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our
               Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of
               facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.
               USA demands the truth!509
            
                  Police officers attempt to clear rioters inside the Capitol building.
                  (Photo by Brent Stirton/Getty Images)
               
            
            Evidence shows that the 2:24 p.m. tweet immediately precipitated further violence
               at the Capitol.  Immediately after this tweet, the crowds both inside and outside
               of the Capitol building violently surged forward.510  Outside the building, within ten minutes thousands of rioters overran the line on
               the west side of the Capitol that was being held by the Metropolitan Police Forces
               Civil Disturbance Unit, the first time in history of the DC Metro Police that such
               a security line had ever been broken.511
            Virtually everyone on the White House staff the Select Committee interviewed condemned
               the 2:24 p.m. tweet in the strongest terms.
            Deputy National Security Adviser Matthew Pottinger told the Select Committee that
               the 2:24 p.m. tweet was so destructive that it convinced him to resign as soon as
               possible:
            One of my aides handed me a sheet of paper that contained the tweet that you just
               read. I read it and was quite disturbed by it. I was disturbed and worried to see
               that the President was attacking Vice President Pence for doing his constitutional
               duty.
            So the tweet looked to me like the opposite of what we really needed at that moment,
               which was a de-escalation. And that is why I had said earlier that it looked like
               fuel being poured on the fire.  
            So that was the moment that I decided that I was going to resign, that that would
               be my last day at the White House. I simply didnt want to be associated with the
               events with the events that were unfolding at the Capitol.512
            Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Matthews had a similar reaction:
            So it was obvious that the situation at the Capitol was violent and escalating quickly.
               And so I thought that the tweet about the Vice President was the last thing that was
               needed in that moment.
            And I remember thinking that this was going to be bad for him to tweet this, because
               it was essentially him giving the green light to these people, telling them that what
               they were doing at the steps of the Capitol and entering the Capitol was okay, that
               they were justified in their anger.
            And he shouldnt have been doing that. He should have been telling these people to
               go home and to leave and to condemn the violence that we were seeing.
            And I am someone who has worked with him, you know, I worked on the campaign, traveled
               all around the country, going to countless rallies with him, and I have seen the impact
               that his words have on his supporters. They truly latch onto every word and every
               tweet that he says.
            And so, I think that in that moment for him to tweet out the message about Mike Pence,
               it was him pouring gasoline on the fire and making it much worse.513
            Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere stated the following:
            Committee Staff:  What was your reaction when you saw that tweet?
            Deere:  Extremely unhelpful.
            Committee Staff:  Why?
            Deere:  It wasnt the message that we needed at that time.  It wasnt going tothe
               scenes at the U.S. Capitol were only getting worse at that point.  This was not going
               to help that.514
            White House Counsel Pat Cipollone told the Select Committee, I dont remember when
               exactly I heard about that tweet, but my reaction to it is thats a terrible tweet,
               and I disagreed with the sentiment.  And I thought it was wrong.515 
            Likewise, Counselor to the President Hope Hicks texted a colleague that evening: Attacking
               the VP? Wtf is wrong with him.516
            At 2:26 p.m., Vice President Pence was again moved to a different location.517
            President Trump had the TV on in the dining room.518  At 2:38 p.m., Fox News was showing video of the chaos and attack, with tear gas
               filling the air in the Capitol Rotunda.  And a newscaster reported, [T]his is a very
               dangerous situation.519  This is the context in which Trump sent the tweet.
            Testimony obtained by the Committee indicates that President Trump knew about the
               rioters anger at Vice President Pence and indicated something to the effect that
               the Vice President deserves it.520  As Cassidy Hutchinson explained: 
            I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, Mark, we need to do something more.
               Theyre literally calling for the Vice President to be fing hung. And Mark had responded
               something to the effect of, You heard him, Pat. He thinks Mike deserves it. He doesnt
               think theyre doing anything wrong. To which Pat said something, [t]his is fing
               crazy, we need to be doing something more, briefly stepped into Marks office, and
               when Mark had said somethingwhen Mark had said something to the effect of, He doesnt
               think theyre doing anything wrong, knowing what I had heard briefly in the dining
               room coupled with Pat discussing the hanging Mike Pence chants in the lobby of our
               office and then Marks response, I understood theyre to be the rioters in the Capitol
               that were chanting for the Vice President to be hung.521
            Although White House Counsel Pat Cipollone was limited in what he would discuss because
               of privilege concerns, he stated the following:
            Committee Staff: Do you remember any discussion at any point during the day about
               rioters at the Capitol chanting hang Mike Pence?
            Cipollone: Yes. I rememberI remember hearing thatabout that. Yes.
            Committee Staff: Yeah. And
            Cipollone: I dont know if I observed that myself on TV. I dont remember.
            Committee Staff: Im just curious, I understand the privilege line youve drawn, but
               do you remember what you can share with us about the discussion about those chants,
               the hang Mike Pence chants?
            Cipollone: I could tell you my view of that.
            Committee Staff: Yeah. Please.
            Cipollone: My view of that is that is outrageous.
            Committee Staff: Uh-huh.
            Cipollone: And for anyone to suggest such a thing as the Vice President of the United
               States, for people in that crowd to be chanting that I thought was terrible. I thought
               it was outrageous and wrong. And I expressed that very clearly to people.522
            Almost immediately after the 2:24 p.m. tweet, Eric Herschmann went upstairs in the
               West Wing to try to enlist Ivanka Trumps assistance to persuade her father to do
               the right thing.523  Ivanka rushed down to the Oval Office dining room.  Although no one could convince
               President Trump to call for the violent rioters to leave the Capitol, Ivanka persuaded
               President Trump that a tweet could be issued to discourage violence against the police.
               
            At 2:38 p.m., President Trump sent this tweet:
            Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They are truly on the side
               of our Country. Stay peaceful!524
            While some in the meeting invoked executive privilege, or failed to recall the specifics,
               others told us what happened at that point.  Sarah Matthews, the White House Deputy
               Press Secretary, had urged her boss, Kayleigh McEnany, to have the President make
               a stronger statement.  But she informed us that President Trump resisted using the
               word peaceful in his message:
            Committee Staff:  Ms. Matthews, Ms. McEnany told us she came right back to the press
               office after meeting with the President about this particular tweet. What did she
               tell you about what happened in that dining room?
            Sarah Matthews: When she got back, she told me that a tweet had been sent out.  And
               I told her that I thought the tweet did not go far enough, that I thought there needed
               to be a call to action and he needed to condemn the violence. And we were in a room
               full of people, but people werent paying attention. And so, she looked directly at
               me and in a hushed tone shared with me that the President did not want to include
               any sort of mention of peace in that tweet and that it took some convincing on their
               part, those who were in the room.  And she said that there was a back and forth going
               over different phrases to find something that he was comfortable with. And it wasnt
               until Ivanka Trump suggested the phrase stay peaceful that he finally agreed to
               include it.525
            At 3:13 p.m., President Trump sent another tweet, but again declined to tell people
               to go home:
            I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful.  No violence!  Remember,
               WE are the Party of Law &amp; Orderrespect the Law and our great men and women in Blue.
               Thank you!526
            Almost everyone, including staff in the White House also found the Presidents 2:38
               p.m. and 3:13 p.m. tweets to be insufficient because they did not instruct the rioters
               to leave the Capitol.  As mentioned, President Trumps son, Donald Trump Jr., texted
               Meadows:
            Hes got to condem [sic] this shit. Asap. The captiol [sic] police tweet is not enough.527
            Sean Hannity also texted Mark Meadows:
            Can he make a statement.  I saw the tweet.  Ask people to peacefully leave the capital
               [sic].528
            None of these efforts resulted in President Trump immediately issuing the message
               that was needed.  White House staff had these comments:
            Pottinger: Yeah.  It was insufficient.  I think whatyou could count me among those
               who was hoping to see an unequivocal strong statement clearing out the Capitol, telling
               people to stand down, leave, go home.  I think thats what we were hoping for.529
            . . .
            Matthews: Yeah.  So a conversation started in the press office after the President
               sent out those two tweets that I deemed were insufficient. . . .  I thought that we
               should condemn the violence and condemn it unequivocally.  And I thought that he needed
               to include a call to action and to tell these people to go home.530
            And they were right.  Evidence showed that neither of these tweets had any appreciable
               impact on the violent rioters.  Unlike the video-message tweet that did not come until
               4:17 finally instructing rioters to leave, neither the 2:38 nor the 3:13 tweets made
               any difference.
            At some point after 3:05 p.m. that afternoon, President Trumps Chief of Staffand
               President Trump himselfwere informed that someone had been shot.531  That person was Ashli Babbitt, who was fatally shot at 2:44 p.m. as she and other
               rioters tried to gain access to the House chamber.532  There is no indication that this affected the Presidents state of mind that day,
               and we found no evidence that the President expressed any remorse that day.
            Meanwhile, leaders in Congressincluding Speaker Pelosi, Senator Schumer, Senator
               McConnelland the Vice President, were taking action.  They called the Secretary of
               Defense, the Attorney General, governors and officials in Virginia, Maryland, and
               the District of Columbia, begging for assistance.533
            President-elect Biden also broadcast a video calling on President Trump to take action:
            I call on President Trump to go on national television now to fulfill his oath and
               defend the Constitution and demand an end to this siege.534
            President Trump could have done this, of course, anytime after he learned of the violence
               at the Capitol.  At 4:17 p.m., 187 minutes after finishing his speech (and even longer
               after the attack began), President Trump finally broadcast a video message in which
               he asked those attacking the Capitol to leave:
            I know your pain.  I know youre hurt.  We had an election that was stolen from us.
               It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side, but
               you have to go home now.  We have to have peace.535
            President Trumps Deputy Press Secretary, Sarah Matthews testified about her reaction
               to this video message:
            [H]e told the people who we had just watched storm our nations Capitol with the intent
               on overthrowing our democracy, violently attack police officers, and chant heinous
               things like, Hang Mike Pence, We love you.  Youre very special.  As a spokesperson
               for him, I knew that I would be asked to defend that.  And to me, his refusal to act
               and call off the mob that day and his refusal to condemn the violence was indefensible.
               And so, I knew that I would be resigning that evening.536
            By this time, the National Guard and other additional law enforcement had begun to
               arrive in force and started to turn the tide of the violence.  Many of those attackers
               in the Capitol saw or received word of President Trumps 4:17 p.m. message, and they
               understood this message as an instruction to leave:537
            
               Stephen Ayres testified in front of the Select Committee that: Well, we were there.
                  As soon as that come out, everybody started talking about it, and it seemed like it
                  started to disperse, you know, some of the crowd. Obviously, you know, once we got
                  back to the hotel room, we seen that it was still going on, but it definitely dispersed
                  a lot of the crowd.538
               Jacob Chansley, also known as the QAnon-Shaman answered President Trumps directive:
                  Im here delivering the Presidents message. Donald Trump has asked everybody to
                  go home. Another responded to  Chansley: Thats our order.539 
               Other unknown individuals also listened to President Trumps message while outside
                  the Capitol, and responded: He says, go home. He says, go home. And Yeah. Here.
                  He said to go home.540
            
            At 6:01 p.m., President Trump sent his last tweet of the day, not condemning the violence,
               but instead attempting to justify it:
            These are the things and events that happen when a sacred election landslide victory
               is so unceremoniously &amp; viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been
               badly &amp; unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love &amp; in peace. Remember this
               day forever!541
            Staff in President Trumps own White House and campaign had a strong reaction to this
               message:
            Sarah Matthews:  At that point I had already made the decision to resign and this
               tweet just further cemented my decision.  I thought that January 6, 2021, was one
               of the darkest days in our Nations history and President Trump was treating it as
               a celebratory occasion with that tweet.  And so, it just further cemented my decision
               to resign.542
            Tim Murtaugh:  I dont think its a patriotic act to attack the Capitol.  But I have
               no idea how to characterize the people other than they trespassed, destroyed property,
               and assaulted the U.S. Capitol.  I think calling them patriots is a, lets say, a
               stretch, to say the least. . . . I dont think its a patriotic act to attack the
               U.S. Capitol.543
            Pat Cipollone:  [W]hat happened at the Capitol cannot be justified in any form or
               fashion.  It was wrong, and it was tragic.  And a lotand it was a terrible day. 
               It was a terrible day for this country.544 
            Greg Jacob:  I thought it was inappropriate. . . . To my mind, it was a day that should
               live in infamy.545
            At 6:27 p.m., President Trump retired to his residence for the night.  As he did,
               he had one final comment to an employee who accompanied him to the residence.  The
               one takeaway that the President expressed in that moment, following a horrific afternoon
               of violence and the worst attack against the U.S. Capitol building in over two centuries,
               was this: Mike Pence let me down.546
            President Trumps inner circle was still trying to delay the counting of electoral
               votes into the evening, even after the violence had been quelled.  Rudolph Giuliani
               tried calling numerous Members of Congress in the hour before the joint session resumed,
               including Rep. Jim Jordan (ROH) and Senators Marsha Blackburn (RTN), Tommy Tuberville
               (RAL), Bill Hagerty (RTN), Lindsey Graham (RSC), Josh Hawley (RMO), and Ted Cruz
               (RTX).547  His voicemail intended for Senator Tuberville at 7:02 p.m. that evening eventually
               was made public:
            Guiliani: Sen. Tuberville? Or I should say Coach Tuberville. This is Rudy Giuliani,
               the Presidents lawyer.  Im calling you because I want to discuss with you how theyre
               trying to rush this hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to
               just slow it down so we can get these legislatures to get more information to you.548
            
                  A Trump sign with Vice President Mike Pences name removed.
                  (Photo by Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images)
               
            
            Reflecting on President Trumps conduct that day, Vice President Pence noted that
               President Trump had made no effort to contact me in the midst of the rioting or any
               point afterward.549  He wrote that President Trumps reckless words had endangered my family and all
               those serving at the Capitol.550
            President Trump did not contact a single top national security official during the
               day.  Not at the Pentagon, nor at the Department of Homeland Security, the Department
               of Justice, the F.B.I., the Capitol Police Department, or the D.C. Mayors office.551  As Vice President Pence has confirmed, President Trump didnt even try to reach
               his own Vice President to make sure that Pence was safe.552  President Trump did not order any of his staff to facilitate a law enforcement response
               of any sort.553  His Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staffwho is by statute the primary military
               advisor to the Presidenthad this reaction:
            General Milley: You know, youre the Commander in Chief.  Youve got an assault going
               on on the Capitol of the United States of America.  And theres nothing?  No call?
               Nothing?  Zero?554
            General Milley did, however, receive a call from President Trumps Chief of Staff
               Mark Meadows that day.  Here is how he described that call:
            He said, We have to kill the narrative that the Vice President is making all the
               decisions. We need to establish the narrative, you know, that the President is still
               in charge and that things are steady or stable, or words to that effect. I immediately
               interpreted that as politics, politics, politics. Red flag for me, personally. No
               action. But I remember it distinctly. And I dont do political narratives.555
            Some have suggested that President Trump gave an order to have 10,000 troops ready
               for January 6th.556  The Select Committee found no evidence of this.  In fact, President Trumps Acting
               Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller directly refuted this when he testified under
               oath:
            Committee Staff:  To be crystal clear, there was no direct order from President Trump
               to put 10,000 troops to be on the ready for January 6th, correct?
            Miller:  No.  Yeah.  Thats correct.  There was no directthere was no order from
               the President.557
            Later, on the evening of January 6th, President Trumps former campaign manager, Brad
               Parscale, texted Katrina Pierson, one of President Trumps rally organizers, that
               the events of the day were the result of a sitting president asking for civil war
               and that This week I feel guilty for helping him win now that . . . a woman is
               dead.  Pierson answered: You do realize this was going to happen.  Parscale replied:
               Yeah. If I was Trump and knew my rhetoric killed someone.  It wasnt the rhetoric,
               Pierson suggested.  But Parscale insisted: Yes it was.558
            The Immediate Aftermath of January 6th
            In days following January 6th, President Trumps family and staff attempted repeatedly
               to persuade him not to repeat his election fraud allegations, to concede defeat, and
               to allow the transition to President Biden to proceed.  Trump did make two video recordings,
               which initially appeared contrite.  But evidence suggests that these statements were
               designed at least in part to ward off other potential consequences of January 6th,
               such as invocation of the 25th Amendment or impeachment.  
            In fact, Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy indicated after the attack, in a discussion
               with House Republican leaders, that he would ask President Trump to resign:
            Rep. Cheney:  I guess theres a question when we were talking about the 25th Amendment resolution, and you asked what would happen after hes gone?  Is there
               any chance?  Are you hearing that he might resign?  Is there any reason to think that
               might happen?
            Leader McCarthy:  Ive had a few discussions.  My gut tells me no.  Im seriously
               thinking of having that discussion with him tonight.  I havent talked to him in a
               couple of days.  From what I know of him, I mean, you guys all know him too, do you
               think hed ever back away?  But what I think Im going to do is Im going to call
               him.  This is what I think.  We know [the 25th Amendment resolution] will pass the House.  I think theres a chance it will pass
               the Senate, even when hes gone. And I think theres a lot of different ramifications
               for that.  . . . Again, the only discussion I would have with him is that I think
               this will pass, and it would be my recommendation you should resign.559
            Before January 6th, Fox News personality Sean Hannity warned that January 6th could
               be disastrous:  
            Dec. 31, 2020 text from Sean Hannity to Mark Meadows:  We cant lose the entire WH
               counsels office. I do NOT see January 6 happening the way he is being told. After
               the 6 th [sic]. He should announce will lead the nationwide effort to reform voting
               integrity. Go to Fl and watch Joe mess up daily. Stay engaged. When he speaks people
               will listen.560
            January 5, 2021 texts from Sean Hannity to Mark Meadows:
            Im very worried about the next 48 hours
            Pence pressure. WH counsel will leave.
            Sorry, I cant talk right now.
            On with boss 561
            A member of the Republican Freedom caucus also warned, on December 31, 2020, and on
               January 1, 2021: 
            The President should call everyone off. Its the only path. If we substitute the will
               of states through electors with a vote by Congress every 4 years. . . we have destroyed
               the electoral college. . . Respectfully.562 If POTUS allows this to occur. . . were driving a stake in the heart of the federal
               republic. . .563
            After January 6th, Hannity worked to persuade President Trump to stop talking about
               election fraud, proposed that Trump pardon Hunter Biden, and discussed attending the
               Inauguration: 
            
                No more stolen election talk.
                Yes, impeachment and 25th amendment are real, and many people will quit.
                He was intrigued by the Pardon idea!! (Hunter)
                Resistant but listened to Pence thoughts, to make it right.
                Seemed to like attending Inauguration talk.564
            
            Ultimately, President Trump took little of the advice from Hannity and his White House
               staff.  A few days later, Hannity wrote again to Meadows and Jim Jordan:
            Guys, we have a clear path to land the plane in 9 days. He cant mention the election
               again. Ever. I did not have a good call with him today. And worse, Im not sure what
               is left to do or say, and I don t like not knowing if its truly understood. Ideas?565
            Likewise, despite her many contrary public statements, Republican Congresswoman Marjorie
               Taylor Greene privately texted her concerns on January 6th about a continuing and
               real threat of violence:  
            Mark I was just told there is an active shooter on the first floor of the Capitol
               Please tell the President to calm people This isnt the way to solve anything566
            Donald Trump was impeached on January 13th.  In a speech that day, Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy made this statement from
               the House floor, but voted against impeachment:
            The President bears responsibility for Wednesdays attack on Congress by mob rioters.
               He should have immediately denounced the mob when he saw what was unfolding. These
               facts require immediate action by President Trump, accept his share of responsibility,
               quell the brewing unrest and ensure President-elect Biden is able to successfully
               begin his term. The Presidents immediate action also deserves congressional action,
               which is why I think a fact-finding commission and a censure resolution would be prudent.567
            
                  Kevin McCarthy speaks at a press conference at the Capitol building on August 27,
                     2021.
                  (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
               
            
            Later, McCarthy told members of the House Republican conference that Trump had acknowledged
               that he was at least partially responsible for the January 6th attack.
            I asked him personally today, does he hold responsibility for what happened?  Does
               he feel bad about what happened?  He told me he does have some responsibility for
               what happened.  And he need to acknowledge that.568  
            Since January 6th, President Trump has continued to claim falsely that the 2020 Presidential
               election was stolen.  Not only that, he has urged other politicians to push this argument
               as well.  Representative Mo Brooks has issued a public statement appearing to represent
               Trumps private views and intentions:
            President Trump asked me to rescind the 2020 elections, immediately remove Joe Biden
               from the White House, immediately put President Trump back in the White House, and
               hold a new special election for the presidency.569
            Referrals to the U.S. Department of Justice Special Counsel and House Ethics Committee
            The Committees work has produced a substantial body of new information.  We know
               far more about the Presidents plans and actions to overturn the election than almost
               all Members of Congress did when President Trump was impeached on January 13, 2021,
               or when he was tried by the Senate in February of that year.  Fifty-seven of 100 Senators
               voted to convict President Trump at that time, and more than 20 others condemned the
               Presidents conduct and said they were voting against conviction because the Presidents
               term had already expired.570  At the time, the Republican Leader of the U.S. Senate said this about Donald Trump:
               A mob was assaulting the Capitol in his name. These criminals were carrying his banners,
               hanging his flags, and screaming their loyalty to him. It was obvious that only President
               Trump could end this. He was the only one who could.571 House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, who spoke directly with President Trump during
               the violence of January 6th, expressed similar views both in private and in public.  Privately, Leader McCarthy
               stated: But let me be very clear to you and I have been very clear to the President. He bears
               responsibility for his words and actions. No if, ands or buts.572  In public, Leader McCarthy concluded: The President bears responsibility for Wednesdays attack
               on Congress by mob rioters.573 
            Today we know that the planning to overturn the election on January 6th was substantially
               more extensive, and involved many other players, and many other efforts over a longer
               time period.  Indeed, the violent attack and invasion of the Capitol, and what provoked
               it, are only a part of the story. 
            From the outset of its hearings, the Committee has explained that President Trump
               and a number of other individuals made a series of very specific plans, ultimately
               with multiple separate elements, but all with one overriding objective:  to corruptly
               obstruct, impede, or influence the counting of electoral votes on January 6th, and
               thereby overturn the lawful results of the election.  The underlying and fundamental
               feature of that planning was the effort to get one man, Vice President Mike Pence,
               to assert and then exercise unprecedented and lawless powers to unilaterally alter
               the actual election outcome on January 6th.  Evidence obtained by the Committee demonstrates that John Eastman, who worked with
               President Trump to put that and other elements of the plan in place, knew, even before
               the 2020 Presidential election, that Vice President Pence could not lawfully refuse
               to count official, certified electoral slates submitted by the Governors of the States.574  Testimony and contemporaneous documentary evidence also indicate that President
               Trump knew that the plan was unlawful before January 6th.575 When the Vice Presidents counsel wrote to Eastman on January 6th to ask whether
               the latter had informed the President that the Vice President did not have authority
               to decide the election unilaterally, Eastman responded: Hes been so advised, and
               added, [b]ut you know himonce he gets something in his head, it is hard to get him
               to change course.576
            Many of the other elements of President Trumps plans were specifically designed to
               create a set of circumstances on January 6th to assist President Trump in overturning
               the lawful election outcome during Congresss joint session that day.  For example,
               President Trump pressured State legislatures to adopt new electoral slates that Vice
               President Pence could, unlawfully, count.  Trump solicited State officials to find
               a sufficient number of votes to alter the final count, and instructed the Department
               of Justice to just say that the election was was [sic] corrupt + leave the rest to
               me and the R[epublican] Congressmen.577  President Trump offered the job of Acting Attorney General to Jeffrey Clark. As
               our evidence has unequivocally demonstrated,  Clark intended to use that position
               to send a series of letters from the Department of Justice to multiple States falsely
               asserting that the Department had found fraud and urging those States to convene their
               legislatures to alter their official electoral slates.578  And President Trump, with the help of the Republican National Committee and others,
               oversaw an effort to create and transmit to Government officials a series of intentionally
               false electoral slates for Vice President Pence to utilize on January 6th to alter
               or delay the count of lawful votes.579 
            Of course, other elements of the plan complemented these efforts too. As this Report
               documents, President Trump was advised by his own experts and the Justice Department
               that his election fraud allegations were false, and he knew he had lost virtually
               all the legal challenges to the election, but he nevertheless engaged in a successful
               but fraudulent effort to persuade tens of millions of Americans that the election
               was stolen from him. This effort was designed to convince Americans that President
               Trumps actions to overturn the election were justified.  President Trump then urged
               his supporters to travel to Washington on January 6th to apply pressure to Congress
               to halt the count and change the election outcome, explaining to those who were coming
               to Washington that they needed to take back their country and stop the steal.580
            It is helpful in understanding these facts to focus on specific moments in time when
               President Trump made corrupt, dishonest and unlawful choices to pursue his plans.
               For example, by December 14th when the electoral college met and certified Joe Bidens
               victory, President Trump knew that he had failed in all the relevant litigation; he
               had been advised by his own experts and the Justice Department that his election fraud
               claims were false; and he had been told by numerous advisors that he had lost and
               should concede.  But despite his duty as President to take care that the laws are
               faithfully executed, he chose instead to ignore all of the judicial rulings and the
               facts before him and push forward to overturn the election.  Likewise, in the days
               and hours before the violence of January 6th, President Trump knew that no State had
               issued any changed electoral slate.  Indeed, neither President Trump nor his co-conspirators
               had any evidence that any majority of any State legislature was willing to do so.
               President Trump also knew that Vice President Pence could not lawfully refuse to count
               legitimate votes.  Despite all of these facts, President Trump nevertheless proceeded
               to instruct Vice President Pence to execute a plan he already knew was illegal.  And
               then knowing that a violent riot was underway, President Trump breached his oath of
               office; our Commander in Chief refused for hours to take the one simple step that
               his advisors were begging him to taketo instruct his supporters to disperse, stand
               down, and leave the Capitol.  Instead, fully understanding what had unfolded at the
               Capitol, President Trump exacerbated the violence with a tweet attacking Vice President
               Pence.581  Any rational person who had watched the events that day knew that President Trumps
               2:24 p.m. tweet would lead to further violence.  It did.  And, at almost exactly the
               same time, President Trump continued to lobby Congress to delay the electoral count.
            As the evidence demonstrates, the rioters at the Capitol had invaded the building
               and halted the electoral count.  They did not begin to relent until President Trump
               finally issued a video statement instructing his supporters to leave the Capitol at
               4:17 p.m., which had an immediate and helpful effect: rioters began to disperse582but not before the Capitol was invaded, the election count was halted, feces were
               smeared in the Capitol, the Vice President and his family and many others were put
               in danger, and more than 140 law enforcement officers were attacked and seriously
               injured by mob rioters.  Even if it were true that President Trump genuinely believed
               the election was stolen, this is no defense.  No President can ignore the courts and purposely violate the law no matter what
               supposed justification he or she presents.  
            These conclusions are not the Committees alone.  In the course of its investigation,
               the Committee had occasion to present evidence to Federal District Court Judge David
               Carter, who weighed that evidence against submissions from President Trumps lawyer,
               John Eastman.  Judge Carter considered this evidence in the context of a discovery
               disputespecifically whether the Committee could obtain certain of Eastmans documents
               pursuant to the crime-fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege.  That exception
               provides that otherwise privileged documents may lose their privilege if they were
               part of an effort to commit a crime or a fraud, in this case by President Trump. 
               Judge Carter set out his factual findings, discussing multiple elements of President
               Trumps multi-part plan to overturn the election,583 and then addressed whether the evidence, including Eastmans email communications,
               demonstrated that Trump and Eastman committed crimes. Based on the evidence, Judge
               Carter explained, the Court finds it more likely than not that President Trump corruptly
               attempted to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021, and more
               likely than not that President Trump and Dr. Eastman dishonestly conspired to obstruct
               the Joint Session of Congress on January 6th.584  Judge Carter also concluded that President Trumps and Eastmans pressure campaign
               to stop the electoral count did not end with Vice President Penceit targeted every
               tier of federal and state elected officials585 and was a coup in search of a legal theory.586  The plan spurred violent attacks on the seat of our nations government, Judge
               Carter wrote, and it threatened to permanently end[] the peaceful transition of power.
               . . .587
            The U.S. Department of Justice has been investigating and prosecuting persons who
               invaded the Capitol, engaged in violence, and planned violence on that day.  The Department
               has charged more than 900 individuals, and nearly 500 have already been convicted
               or pleaded guilty as we write.588  As the Committees investigation progressed through its hearings, public reporting
               emerged suggesting that the Department of Justice had also begun to investigate several
               others specifically involved in the events being examined by the Committee.  Such
               reports indicated that search warrants had been issued, based on findings of probable
               cause, for the cell phones of John Eastman, Jeffrey Clark, and Representative Scott
               Perry.589  Other reports suggested that the Department had empaneled one or more grand juries
               and was pursuing a ruling compelling several of this Committees witnesses, including
               Pat Cipollone and Greg Jacob, to give testimony on topics for which President Trump
               had apparently asserted executive privilege.  Recent reporting suggests that a Federal
               district court judge has now rejected President Trumps executive privilege claims
               in that context.590
            Criminal referrals from a congressional committee are often made in circumstances
               where prosecutors are not yet known to be pursuing some of the same facts and evidence.
               That is not the case here.  During the course of our investigation, both the U.S.
               Department of Justice and at least one local prosecutors office (Fulton County, Georgia)
               have been actively conducting criminal investigations concurrently with this congressional
               investigation.591  In fact, the U.S. Department of Justice has recently taken the extraordinary step
               of appointing a Special Counsel to investigate the former Presidents conduct.592 
            The Committee recognizes that the Department of Justice and other prosecutorial authorities
               may be in a position to utilize investigative tools, including search warrants and
               grand juries, superior to the means the Committee has for obtaining relevant information
               and testimony.  Indeed, both the Department of Justice and the Fulton County District
               Attorney may now have access to witness testimony and records that have been unavailable
               to the Committee, including testimony from President Trumps Chief of Staff Mark Meadows,
               and others who either asserted privileges or invoked their Fifth Amendment rights.593  The Department may also be able to access, via grand jury subpoena or otherwise,
               the testimony of Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, Representative Scott Perry, Representative
               Jim Jordan and others, each of whom appears to have had materially relevant communications
               with Donald Trump or others in the White House but who failed to comply with the Select
               Committees subpoenas. 
            Taking all of these facts into account, and based on the breadth of the evidence it
               has accumulated, the Committee makes the following criminal referrals to the Department
               of Justices Special Counsel.
            I.   Obstruction of an Official Proceeding (18 U.S.C.  1512(c))
            Section 1512(c)(2) of Title 18 of the United States Code makes it a crime to corruptly obstruct[], influence[], or impede[] any official proceeding, or attempt[] to do so.594  Sufficient evidence exists of one or more potential violations of this statute for
               a criminal referral of President Trump and others.595
            First, there should be no question that Congresss joint session to count electoral votes on January 6th was an official proceeding under
                  section 1512(c).  Many Federal judges have already reached that specific conclusion.596  
            Second, there should be no doubt that President Trump knew that his actions were likely to
                  obstruct, influence or impede that proceeding.  Based on the evidence developed,
                  President Trump was attempting to prevent or delay the counting of lawful certified
                  electoral college votes from multiple States.597 President Trump was directly and personally involved in this effort, personally pressuring
                  Vice President Pence relentlessly as the joint session on January 6th approached.598 
            Third, President Trump acted with a corrupt purpose.  Vice President Pence, Greg Jacob, and others repeatedly told the President that the Vice President had no unilateral
                  authority to prevent certification of the election.599  Indeed, in an email exchange during the violence of  January 6th, Eastman admitted that President Trump had been advised that Vice President Pence could not lawfully
                  refuse to count votes under the Electoral Count Act, but once he gets something in
                  his head, its hard to get him to change course.600  In addition, President Trump knew that he had lost dozens of State and Federal lawsuits, and that the Justice Department, his campaign and his other advisors concluded
                  that there was insufficient fraud to alter the outcome.  President Trump also knew
                  that no majority of any State legislature had taken or manifested any intention to take any official action that
                  could change a States electoral college votes.601 But President Trump pushed forward anyway.  As Judge Carter explained, [b]ecause President Trump likely knew that the plan to disrupt the electoral count was wrongful,
                  his mindset exceeds the threshold for acting corruptly under  1512(c).602 
            Sufficient evidence exists of one or more potential violations of 18 U.S.C.  1512(c)
                  for a criminal referral of President Trump based solely on his plan to get Vice President
                  Pence to prevent certification of the election at the joint session of Congress.  Those facts standing alone are sufficient.  But such a charge
                  under that statute can also be based on the plan to create and transmit to the executive and legislative branches fraudulent electoral slates, which were ultimately intended to
                  facilitate an unlawful action by Vice President Penceto refuse to count legitimate, certified electoral votes during Congresss official
                  January 6th proceeding.603  Additionally, evidence developed about the many other elements of President Trumps
                  plans to overturn the election, including soliciting State legislatures, State officials, and others to alter official electoral outcomes, provides further evidence
                  that President Trump was attempting through multiple means to corruptly obstruct,
                  impede, or influence the counting of electoral votes on January 6th.  This is also true of
                  President Trumps personal directive to the Department of Justice to just say that the election was was [sic] corrupt + leave the rest to me and the R[epublican]
               Congressmen.604 
            We also stress in particular the draft letter to the Georgia legislature authored
                  by Jeffrey Clark and another Trump political appointee at the Department of Justice.
                  The draft letter embraces many of the same theories that John Eastman and others were
                  asserting in President Trumps effort to lobby State legislatures.  White House Counsel Pat Cipollone described that letter as a murder-suicide pact, and other White House and Justice
                  Department officials offered similar descriptions.605  As described herein, that draft letter was intended to help persuade a State legislature to change its certified slate of electoral college electors based on false allegations of fraud, so Vice President Pence could
                  unilaterally and unlawfully decide to count a different slate on January 6th.606  The letter was transparently false, improper, and illegal.  President Trump had
                  multiple communications with Clark in the days before January 6th, and there is no basis to doubt that President Trump offered Clark the position of Acting Attorney General knowing
                  that Clark would send the letter and others like it.607
            Of course, President Trump is also responsible for recruiting tens of thousands of
                  his supporters to Washington for January 6th, and knowing they were angry and some were armed, instructing them to march to the
                  Capitol and fight like hell.608  And then, while knowing a violent riot was underway, he refused for multiple hours
                  to take the single step his advisors and supporters were begging him to take to halt
                  the violence: to make a public statement instructing his supporters to disperse and
                  leave the Capitol.609  Through action and inaction, President Trump corruptly obstructed, delayed, and impeded the vote count. 
            In addition, the Committee believes sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral
                  of John Eastman and certain other Trump associates under 18 U.S.C. 1512(c).  The
                  evidence shows that Eastman knew in advance of the 2020 election that Vice President
                  Pence could not refuse to count electoral votes on January 6th.610  In the days before January 6th, Eastman was warned repeatedly that his plan was illegal and completely crazy,
                  and would cause riots in the streets.611  Nonetheless, Eastman continued to assist President Trumps pressure campaign in
               public and in private, including in meetings with the Vice President and in his own
               speech at the Ellipse on January 6th.  And even as the violence was playing out at the Capitol, Eastman admitted in writing
                  that his plan violated the law but pressed for Pence to do it anyway.612  In the immediate aftermath of January 6th, White House lawyer Eric Herschmann told Eastman that he should [g]et a great Fing criminal defense lawyer, youre going to need it.613  Others working with Eastman likely share in Eastmans culpability.  For example, Kenneth
                  Chesebro was a central player in the scheme to submit fake electors to the Congress and the
                  National Archives. 
            The Committee notes that multiple Republican Members of Congress, including Representative
                  Scott Perry, likely have material facts regarding President Trumps plans to overturn
                  the election.  For example, many Members of Congress attended a White House meeting
                  on December 21, 2020, in which the plan to have the Vice President affect the outcome
                  of the election was disclosed and discussed.  Evidence indicates that certain of those
                  Members unsuccessfully sought Presidential pardons from President Trump after January
                  6th,614 as did Eastman,615 revealing their own clear consciousness of guilt.
            II.  Conspiracy to Defraud the United States (18 U.S.C.  371)
            Section 371 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code provides that [i]f two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United
               States, or to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for
               any purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of the
               conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five
               years, or both.  The Committee believes sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral of President
                  Trump and others under this statute.616
            First, President Trump entered into an agreement with individuals to obstruct a lawful function
                  of the government (the certification of the election).  The evidence of this element
                  overlaps greatly with the evidence of the section 1512(c)(2) violations, so we will not repeat it at length here.  President
                  Trump engaged in a multi-part plan described in this Report to obstruct a lawful certification
                  of the election.  Judge Carter focused his opinions largely on John Eastmans role,
                  as Eastmans documents were at issue in that case, concluding that the evidence shows
                  that an agreement to enact the electoral count plan likely existed between President
                  Trump and Eastman.617  But President Trump entered into agreementswhether formal or informal618with several other individuals who assisted with the multi-part plan.  With regard
                  to the Department of Justice, Jeffrey Clark stands out as a participant in the conspiracy,
                  as the evidence suggests that Clark entered into an agreement with President Trump
                  that if appointed Acting Attorney General, he would send a letter to State officials falsely stating that the Department of Justice believed that State legislatures had a sufficient factual basis to convene to select new electors.  This
                  was falsethe Department of Justice had reached the conclusion that there was no factual basis
                  to contend that the election was stolen.  Again, as with section 1512(c), the conspiracy under section 371 appears to have also included other individuals such as Chesebro, Rudolph Giuliani, and Mark Meadows, but this Committee does not attempt to determine
                  all of the participants of the conspiracy, many of whom refused to answer this Committees
                  questions.   
            Second, there are several bases for finding that the conspirators used deceitful or dishonest
                  means.  For example, President Trump repeatedly lied about the election, after he
                  had been told by his advisors that there was no evidence of fraud sufficient to change
                  the results of the election.619  In addition, the plot to get the Vice President to unilaterally prevent certification
                  of the election was manifestly (and admittedly) illegal, as discussed above.  Eastman
                  and others told President Trump that it would violate the Electoral Count Act if the
                  Vice President unilaterally rejected electors.  Thus Judge Carter once again had little
                  trouble finding that the intent requirement (deceitful or dishonest means) was met,
                  stating that President Trump continuing to push that plan despite being aware of
                  its illegality constituted obstruction by dishonest means under  371.620  Judge Carter rejected the notion that Eastmans planwhich the President adopted and actualizedwas a good faith interpretation of the law, finding instead that it was a partisan
                  distortion of the democratic process.621  Similarly, both President Trump and Clark had been told repeatedly that the Department
                  of Justice had found no evidence of significant fraud in any of its investigations,
                  but they nonetheless pushed the Department of Justice to send a letter to State officials stating that the Department had found such fraud.  And Georgia Secretary
                  of State Brad Raffensperger and others made clear to President Trump that they had no authority to find him
                  11,780 votes, but the President relentlessly insisted that they do exactly that, even
                  to the point of suggesting there could be criminal consequences if they refused.622
            Third, there were numerous overt acts in furtherance of the agreement, including each of
                  the parts of the Presidents effort to overturn the election.  As Judge Carter concluded,
                  President Trump and Eastman participated in numerous overt acts in furtherance of their shared
                  plan.623  These included, but certainly were not limited to, direct pleas to the Vice President
                  to reject electors or delay certification, including in Oval Office meetings and the
                  Presidents vulgar comments to the Vice President on the morning of January 6th.  Judge Carter also addressed evidence that President Trump knowingly made false representations
               to a court.  Judge Carter concluded that Eastmans emails showed that President Trump
               knew that the specific numbers of voter fraud cited in a complaint on behalf of President
               Trump were wrong but continued to tout those numbers, both in court and to the public.
               Judge Carter found that the emails in question were related to and in furtherance
               of a conspiracy to defraud the United States.624 
            In finding that President Trump, Eastman, and others engaged in conspiracy to defraud
                  the United States under section 371, Judge Carter relied on the documents at issue
                  (largely consisting of Eastmans own emails) and evidence presented to the court by
                  this Committee.  This Committees investigation has progressed significantly since
                  Judge Carter issued his first crime-fraud ruling in March 2022.  The evidence found
                  by this Committee and discussed in detail in this Report further documents that the
                  conspiracy to defraud the United States under section 371 extended far beyond the
                  effort to pressure the Vice President to prevent certification of the election.  The
                  Committee believes there is sufficient evidence for a criminal referral of the multi-part
                  plan described in this Report under section 371, as the very purpose of the plan was
                  to prevent the lawful certification of Joe Bidens election as President.  
            III.  Conspiracy to Make a False Statement (18 U.S.C.  371, 1001)
            President Trump, through others acting at his behest, submitted slates of fake electors
                  to Congress and the National Archives.  Section 1001 of Title 18 of the United States Code applies, in relevant part, to whoever,
               in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch
               of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully
            (1) falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact;
            (2) makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation;
               or
            (3) makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially
               false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry.
            According to the Department of Justice, whether a false statement is criminal under
                  section 1001 depends on whether there is an affirmative response to each of the following
                  questions:
            
                Was the act or statement material?
                Was the act within the jurisdiction of a department or agency of the United States?
                Was the act done knowingly and willfully?625
            
            In addition, and as explained above, 18 U.S.C.  371 makes it a crime to conspire
                  to commit any offense against the United States.626
            The evidence suggests President Trump conspired with others to submit slates of fake
                  electors to Congress and the National Archives.  Sufficient evidence exists of a violation of 18 U.S.C.  371 and 1001 for a criminal
               referral of President Trump and others.
            As explained earlier and in Chapter 3 of this Report, the certifications signed by
                  Trump electors in multiple States were patently false.  Vice President Biden won each of those States, and the relevant State authorities had so certified.  It can hardly be disputed that the false slates
                  of electors were material, as nothing can be more material to the joint session of Congress to certify the election than the question of which candidate won
                  which States. Indeed, evidence obtained by the Committee suggests that those attempting to submit
                  certain of the electoral votes regarded the need to provide that material to Vice
                  President Pence as urgent.627  
            There should be no question that section 1001 applies here.  The false electoral slates were provided both to the executive branch (the National Archives) and the legislative branch.628  The statute applies to any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch
               of the Government of the United States.629  It is well established that false statements to Congress can constitute violations
               of section 1001.630
            Finally, the false statement was made knowingly and willfully.  There is some evidence
                  suggesting that some signatories of the fake certificates believed that the certificates
                  were contingent, to be used only in the event that President Trump prevailed in litigation
                  challenging the election results in their States.  That may be relevant to the question
                  whether those electors knowingly and willfully signed a false statement at the time
                  they signed the certificates.  But it is of no moment to President Trumps conduct,
                  as President Trump (including acting through co-conspirators such as John Eastman
                  and Kenneth Chesebro) relied on the existence of those fake electors as a basis for
                  asserting that the Vice President could reject or delay certification of the Biden
                  electors.  In fact, as explained earlier and in Chapter 5 of this Report, Eastmans
                  memorandum setting out a six-step plan for overturning the election on January 6th
                  begins by stating that 7 states have transmitted dual slates of electors to the President
                  of the Senate.
            The remaining question is who engaged in this conspiracy to make the false statement
                  to Congress under section 1001.  The evidence is clear that President Trump personally participated in
                  a scheme to have the Trump electors meet, cast votes, and send their votes to the
                  joint session of Congress in several States that Vice President Biden won, and then his supporters relied on the existence of
                  these fake electors as part of their effort to obstruct the joint session.  Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel testified before
                  this Committee that President Trump and Eastman directly requested that the RNC organize
                  the effort to have these fake (i.e., Trump) electors meet and cast their votes.631  Thus, the Committee believes that sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral
                  of President Trump for illegally engaging in a conspiracy to violate section 1001; the evidence indicates that he entered into an agreement with Eastman
                  and others to make the false statement (the fake electoral certificates), by deceitful
                  or dishonest means, and at least one member of the conspiracy engaged in at least
                  one overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy (e.g., President Trump and Eastmans call to Ronna McDaniel). 
            IV. Incite, Assist or Aid and Comfort an Insurrection  (18 U.S.C.  2383)
            Section 2383 of Title 18 of the United States Code applies to anyone who incites, sets on foot, assists,
                  or engages in any rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the United States
                  or the laws thereof, or gives aid or comfort thereto.632  The Committee recognizes that section 2383 does not require evidence of an agreement between President Trump and the violent
                  rioters to establish a violation of that provision; instead, the President need only
                  have incited, assisted, or aided and comforted those engaged in violence or other lawless activity in an
                  effort to prevent the peaceful transition of the Presidency under our Constitution.
                  A Federal court has already concluded that President Trumps statements during his Ellipse
                  speech were plausibly words of incitement not protected by the First Amendment.633  Moreover, President Trump was impeached for Incitement of Insurrection, and a
                  majority of the Senate voted to convict, with many more suggesting they might have
                  voted to convict had President Trump still been in office at the time.634
            As explained throughout this Report and in this Committees hearings, President Trump
                  was directly responsible for summoning what became a violent mob to Washington, DC,
                  urging them to march to the Capitol, and then further provoking the already violent
                  and lawless crowd with his 2:24 p.m. tweet about the Vice President.  Even though President Trump had repeatedly been
                  told that Vice President Pence had no legal authority to stop the certification of
                  the election, he asserted in his speech on January 6th that if the Vice President comes through for us that he could deliver victory to
                  Trump: [I]f Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election.  This created a desperate
                  and false expectation in President Trumps mob that ended up putting the Vice President
                  and his entourage and many others at the Capitol in physical danger.  When President
                  Trump tweeted at 2:24 p.m., he knew violence was underway.  His tweet exacerbated that violence.635
            During the ensuing riot, the President refused to condemn the violence or encourage
                  the crowd to disperse despite repeated pleas from his staff and family that he do so.  The Committee has evidence from multiple sources establishing these facts, including
                  testimony from former White House Counsel Pat Cipollone.  Although  Cipollones testimony did not disclose a number of direct communications with President Trump
                  in light of concerns about executive privilege, the Department now appears to have obtained a ruling that  Cipollone can testify before a grand jury about these communications.  Based on the information
                  it has obtained, the Committee believes that  Cipollone and others can provide direct testimony establishing that President Trump refused
                  repeatedly, for multiple hours, to make a public statement directing his violent and
                  lawless supporters to leave the Capitol.  President Trump did not want his supporters
                  (who had effectively halted the vote counting) to disperse.  Evidence obtained by
                  the Committee also indicates that President Trump did not want to provide security
                  assistance to the Capitol during that violent period.636  This appalling behavior by our Commander in Chief occurred despite his affirmative
                  constitutional duty to act to ensure that the laws are faithfully executed.637
            The Committee believes that sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral of
                  President Trump for assist[ing] or ai[ding] and comfort[ing] those at the Capitol
                  who engaged in a violent attack on the United States.  The Committee has developed
                  significant evidence that President Trump intended to disrupt the peaceful transition
                  of power and believes that the Department of Justice can likely elicit testimony relevant
                  to an investigation under section 2383.
            For example, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told White House Counsel Pat Cipollone that the President doesnt want to do anything to stop the violence.638  Worse, at 2:24 p.m., the President inflamed and exacerbated the mob violence by sending a tweet stating
                  that the Vice President didnt have the courage to do what should have been done.639  The President threw gasoline on the fire despite knowing that there was a violent
                  riot underway at the Capitol.  Indeed, video and audio footage from the attack shows
                  that many of the rioters specifically mentioned Vice President Pence.640  And immediately after President Trump sent his tweet, the violence escalated.  Between
               2:25 p.m. and 2:28 p.m., rioters breached the East Rotunda doors, other rioters breached
               the police line in the Capitol Crypt, Vice President Pence had to be evacuated from
               his Senate office, and Leader McCarthy was evacuated from his Capitol office.641
            Evidence developed in the Committees investigation showed that the President, when
                  told that the crowd was chanting Hang Mike Pence, responded that perhaps the Vice
                  President deserved to be hanged.642  And President Trump rebuffed pleas from Leader McCarthy to ask that his supporters leave the Capitol stating, Well, Kevin, I guess these people are more upset about the election than you are.
                  After hours of deadly riot, President Trump eventually released a videotaped statement
                  encouraging the crowd to disperse, though openly professing his love for the members
                  of the mob and empathizing with their frustration at the stolen election.  President
                  Trump has since expressed a desire to pardon those involved in the attack.643
            Both the purpose and the effect of the Presidents actions were to mobilize a large
                  crowd to descend on the Capitol. Several defendants in pending criminal cases identified
                  the Presidents allegations about the stolen election as the key motivation for their activities
                  at the Capitol.  Many of them specifically cited the Presidents tweets asking his
                  supporters to come to Washington, DC, on January 6th.  For example, one defendant who later pleaded guilty to threatening House Speaker
                  Nancy Pelosi texted a family member on January 6th to say: [Trump] wants heads and Im going to deliver.644  Another defendant released a statement through his attorney stating: I was in Washington,
                  DC on January 6, 2021, because I believed I was following the instructions of former President Trump and he was my President and the commander-in-chief. His statements also had me believing the election
                  was stolen from him.645
            As the violence began to subside and law enforcement continued to secure the Capitol,
               President Trump tweeted again, at 6:01 pm to justify the actions of the rioters: These
               are the things and events that happen, he wrote, when his so-called victory was so
               unceremoniously &amp; viciously stripped away. . . .646  When he wrote those words, he knew exactly what he was doing.  Before President
               Trump issued the tweet, a White House staffer cautioned him that the statement would
               imply that he had something to do with the events that happened at the Capitolbut
               he tweeted it anyway.647  The final words of that tweet leave little doubt about President Trumps sentiments
               toward those who invaded the Capitol: Remember this day forever!648
            V.  Other Conspiracy Statutes (18 U.S.C.  372 and 2384)
            Depending on evidence developed by the Department of Justice, the Presidents actions
                  with the knowledge of the risk of violence could also constitute a violation of 18
                  U.S.C.  372 and  2384, both of which require proof of a conspiracy.  Section 372
                  prohibits a conspiracy between two or more persons to prevent, by force, intimidation,
                  or threat, any person from accepting or holding any office, trust, or place of confidence
                  under the United States, or from discharging any duties thereof, or to induce by like
                  means any officer of the United States to leave the place, where his duties as an
                  officer are required to be performed, or to injure him in the discharge of his official
                  duties.649  Oath Keepers Kelly Meggs, Kenneth Harrelson, and Jessica Watkins were convicted
               of violating 18 U.S.C.  372 in connection with the January 6th attack on the Capitol.650  The Committee believes that former Chief of Staff Mark Meadows (who refused to testify
                  and was held in contempt of Congress) could have specific evidence relevant to such
                  charges, as may witnesses who invoked their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination
                  before this Committee. 
            Section 2384, the seditious conspiracy statute, prohibits conspir[acy] to overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force the Government of the United States
                  . . . or to oppose by force the authority thereof, or by force to prevent, hinder or delay the execution of any law of the United
                  States . . . .651  A jury has already determined beyond a reasonable doubt that a conspiracy existed
                  under section 2384, as the leader of the Oath Keepers and at least one other individual were
                  convicted of seditious conspiracy under section 2384 for their actions related to the attack on the Capitol.652  A trial regarding a series of other Proud Boy defendants may also address similar
                  issues.653 
            The Department of Justice, through its investigative tools that exceed those of this
                  Committee, may have evidence sufficient to prosecute President Trump under sections
                  372 and 2384.  Accordingly, we believe sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral
                  of President Trump under these two statutes.
            VI.  The Committees Concerns Regarding Possible Obstruction of its Investigation
            The Committee has substantial concerns regarding potential efforts to obstruct its
               investigation, including by certain counsel (some paid by groups connected to the
               former President) who may have advised clients to provide false or misleading testimony
               to the Committee.654  Such actions could violate 18 U.S.C.  1505, 1512.  The Committee is aware that
               both the U.S. Department of Justice and the Fulton County District Attorneys Office
               have already obtained information relevant to these matters, including from the Committee
               directly.  We urge the Department of Justice to examine the facts to discern whether
               prosecution is warranted.  The Committees broad concerns regarding obstruction and
               witness credibility are addressed in the Executive Summary to this Report.
            VII.  Accountability for Those Who Plotted Unlawfully to Overturn the Election is
               Critical.
            To date, the Justice Department has pursued prosecution of hundreds of individuals
               who planned and participated in the January 6th invasion of and attack on our Capitol.  But the Department has not yet charged individuals
               who engaged in the broader plan to overturn the election through the means discussed
               in this Report.  The Committee has concluded that it is critical to hold those individuals
               accountable as well, including those who worked with President Trump to create and
               effectuate these plans.  
            In his speech from the Ellipse on January 6th, President Trump recited a host of election fraud allegations he knew to be false,
               and then told tens of thousands of his angry supporters this:
            And fraud breaks up everything, doesnt it? When you catch somebody in a fraud, youre
               allowed to go by very different rules.  So I hope Mike has the courage to do what
               he has to do.  And I hope he doesnt listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that
               hes listening to. 655
            The meaning of President Trumps comments was sufficiently clear then, but he recently
               gave America an even more detailed understanding of his state of mind.  Trump wrote
               that allegations of massive fraud related to the 2020 election allow[] for the
               termination of all rules, regulations and articles, even those found in the Constitution.656  And President Trump considered pardoning those involved in the attack and has since
               expressed a desire to pardon themand even give them an apologyif he returns to the
               Oval Office.657 
            In the Committees judgment, based on all the evidence developed, President Trump
               believed then, and continues to believe now, that he is above the law, not bound by
               our Constitution and its explicit checks on Presidential authority.  This recent Trump
               statement only heightens our concern about accountability.  If President Trump and
               the associates who assisted him in an effort to overturn the lawful outcome of the
               2020 election are not ultimately held accountable under the law, their behavior may
               become a precedent, and invitation to danger, for future elections.  A failure to
               hold them accountable now may ultimately lead to future unlawful efforts to overturn
               our elections, thereby threatening the security and viability of our Republic.
            VIII. Referral of Members to the House Ethics Committee for Failure to Comply with
               Subpoenas
            During the course of the Select Committees investigation of President Trumps efforts
               to subvert the election, the Committee learned that various Members of Congress had
               information relevant to the investigation.  Accordingly, the Committee wrote letters
               to a number of Members involved in that activity inviting them to participate voluntarily
               in the Select Committees investigation.  None of the members was willing to provide
               information, which forced the Select Committee to consider alternative means of securing
               evidence about the conduct of these Members and the information they might have. 
               On May 12, 2022, the Select Committee subpoenaed several members of Congressincluding
               House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Representative Jim Jordan, Representative Scott
               Perry, and Representative Andy Biggsto obtain information related to the Committees
               investigation.  
            This was a significant step, but it was one that was warranted by the certain volume
               of information these Members possessed that was relevant to the Select Committees
               investigation, as well as the centrality of their efforts to President Trumps multi-part
               plan to remain in power.  
            Representative McCarthy, among other things, had multiple communications with President
               Trump, Vice President Pence, and others on and related to January 6th. For example,
               during the attack on the Capitol, Representative McCarthy urgently requested that
               the former President issue a statement calling off the rioters, to which President
               Trump responded by push[ing] back and said: Well, Kevin, I guess these people are
               more upset about the election than you are.658 And, after the attack, Representative McCarthy spoke on the House floor and said
               that, [t]here is absolutely no evidence that Antifa caused the attack on the Capitol
               and instead called on President Trump to accept his share of responsibility for
               the violence.659  As noted above, Representative McCarthy privately confided in colleagues that President
               Trump accepted some responsibility for the attack on the Capitol.660
            Representative Jordan was a significant player in President Trumps efforts.  He participated
               in numerous post-election meetings in which senior White House officials, Rudolph
               Giuliani, and others, discussed strategies for challenging the election, chief among
               them claims that the election had been tainted by fraud.  On January 2, 2021, Representative
               Jordan led a conference call in which he, President Trump, and other Members of Congress
               discussed strategies for delaying the January 6th joint session.  During that call,
               the group also discussed issuing social media posts encouraging President Trumps
               supporters to march to the Capitol on the 6th.661  An hour and a half later, President Trump and Representative Jordan spoke by phone
               for 18 minutes.662  The day before January 6th, Representative Jordan texted Mark Meadows, passing along
               advice that Vice President Pence should call out all the electoral votes that he
               believes are unconstitutional as no electoral votes at all.663 He spoke with President Trump by phone at least twice on January 6th, though he has
               provided inconsistent public statements about how many times they spoke and what they
               discussed.664  He also received five calls from Rudolph Giuliani that evening, and the two connected
               at least twice, at 7:33 p.m. and 7:49 p.m.665  During that time, Giuliani has testified, he was attempting to reach Members of
               Congress after the joint session resumed to encourage them to continue objecting to
               Joe Bidens electoral votes.666 And, in the days following January 6th, Representative Jordan spoke with White House
               staff about the prospect of Presidential pardons for Members of Congress.667 
            Like Representative Jordan, Representative Perry was also involved in early post-election
               messaging strategy. Both Representative Jordan and Representative Perry were involved
               in discussions with White House officials about Vice President Pences role on January
               6th as early as November 2020.668  Representative Perry was present for conversations in which the White House Counsels
               Office informed him and others that President Trumps efforts to submit fake electoral
               votes were not legally sound.669 But perhaps most pivotally, he was involved in President Trumps efforts to install
               Jeffrey Clark as the Acting Attorney General in December 2020 and January 2021.  Beginning
               in early December 2020, Representative Perry suggested Clark as a candidate to Mark
               Meadows,670 then introduced Clark to President Trump.671  In the days before January 6th, Representative Perry advocated for President Trump
               to speak at the Capitol during the joint session, speaking to Mark Meadows on at least
               one occasion about it.672  He was also a participant in the January 2, 2021, call in which Representative Jordan,
               President Trump, and others discussed issuing social media posts to encourage Trump
               supporters to march to the Capitol on January 6th.673  After January 6th, Representative Perry reached out to White House staff asking
               to receive a Presidential pardon.674
            Representative Biggs was involved in numerous elements of President Trumps efforts
               to contest the election results.  As early as November 6, 2020, Representative Biggs
               texted Mark Meadows, urging him to encourage the state legislatures to appoint [electors].675  In the following days, Representative Biggs told Meadows not to let President Trump
               concede his loss.676  Between then and January 6th, Representative Biggs coordinated with Arizona State
               Representative Mark Finchem to gather signatures from Arizona lawmakers endorsing
               fake Trump electors.677  He also contacted fake Trump electors in at least one State seeking evidence related
               to voter fraud.678  
            To date, none of the subpoenaed Members has complied with either voluntary or compulsory
               requests for participation.  
            Representative McCarthy initially responded to the Select Committees subpoena in
               two letters on May 27 and May 30, 2022, in which he objected to the Select Committees
               composition and validity of the subpoena and offered to submit written interrogatories
               in lieu of deposition testimony.  Although the Select Committee did not release Representative
               McCarthy from his subpoena obligations, Representative McCarthy failed to appear for
               his scheduled deposition on May 31, 2022.  The Select Committee responded to Representative
               McCarthys letters this same day, rejecting his proposal to participate via written
               interrogatories and compelling his appearance for deposition testimony no later than
               June 11, 2022.  Although Representative McCarthy again responded via letter on June
               9, 2022, he did not appear for deposition testimony on or before the specified June
               11, 2022, deadline.
            Representative Jordan also responded to the Select Committees subpoena just before
               his scheduled deposition in a letter on May 25, 2022, containing a variety of objections.
               Representative Jordan also requested material from the Select Committee, including
               all materials referencing him in the Select Committees possession and all internal
               legal analysis related to the constitutionality of Member subpoenas.  Although the
               Select Committee did not release Representative Jordan from his subpoena obligations,
               Representative Jordan failed to appear for his scheduled deposition on May 27, 2022.
               On May 31, 2022, the Select Committee responded to the substance of Representative
               Jordans May 25th letter and indicated that Representative Jordan should appear for
               deposition testimony no later than June 11, 2022.  On June 9, 2022, Representative
               Jordan again wrote to reiterate the points from his May 25th letter.  That same day,
               Representative Jordan sent out a fundraising email with the subject line: IVE BEEN
               SUBPOENED.679  Representative Jordan did not appear before the Select Committee on or before the
               June 11, 2022, deadline.
            Representative Perry likewise responded to the Select Committees subpoena on May
               24, 2022, in a letter, declin[ing] to appear for deposition and requesting that
               the subpoena be immediately withdrawn.680  Although the Select Committee did not release Representative Perry from his subpoena
               obligations, Representative Perry failed to appear on May 26, 2022, for his scheduled
               deposition.  Representative Perry sent a second letter to the Select Committee on
               May 31, 2022, with additional objections.  That same day, the Select Committee responded
               to Representative Perrys letters and stated that he should appear before the Select
               Committee no later than June 11, 2022, for deposition testimony.  Representative Perry
               responded via letter on June 10, 2022, maintaining his objections.  He did not appear
               before the June 11, 2022, deadline.
            Representative Biggs issued a press release on the day the Select Committee issued
               its subpoena, calling the subpoena illegitimate and pure political theater.  The
               day before his scheduled deposition, Representative Biggs sent a letter to the Select
               Committee with a series of objections and an invocation of Speech or Debate immunity.
               Although the Select Committee did not release Representative Biggs from his subpoena
               obligations, Representative Biggs did not appear for his scheduled deposition on May
               26, 2022.  On May 31, 2022, the Select Committee responded to the substance of Representative
               Biggss May 25th letter and indicated that Representative Biggs should appear for
               deposition testimony no later than June 11, 2022.  Although Representative Biggs responded
               with another letter on June 9th, he did not appear before the June 11, 2022, deadline.
            Despite the Select Committees repeated attempts to obtain information from these
               Members and the issuance of subpoenas, each has refused to cooperate and failed to
               comply with a lawfully issued subpoena.  Accordingly, the Select Committee is referring
               their failure to comply with the subpoenas issued to them to the Ethics Committee
               for further action.  To be clear, this referral is only for failure to comply with
               lawfully issued subpoenas. 
            The Rules of the House of Representatives make clear that their willful noncompliance
               violates multiple standards of conduct and subjects them to discipline.  Willful non-compliance
               with compulsory congressional committee subpoenas by House Members violates the spirit
               and letter of House rule XXIII, clause 1, which requires House Members to conduct
               themselves at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House.
               As a previous version of the House Ethics Manual explained, this catchall provision
               encompasses flagrant violations of the law that reflect on Congress as a whole,
               and that might otherwise go unpunished.681  The subpoenaed House Members refusal to comply with their subpoena obligations
               satisfies these criteria.  A House Members willful failure to comply with a congressional
               subpoena also reflects discredit on Congress.  If left unpunished, such behavior undermines
               Congresss longstanding power to investigate in support of its lawmaking authority
               and suggests that Members of Congress may disregard legal obligations that apply to
               ordinary citizens.  
            For these reasons, the Select Committee refers Leader McCarthy and Representatives
               Jordan, Perry, and Biggs for sanction by the House Ethics Committee for failure to
               comply with subpoenas.  The Committee also believes that each of these individuals,
               along with other Members who attended the December 21st planning meeting with President Trump at the White House,682 should be questioned in a public forum about their advance knowledge of and role
               in President Trumps plan to prevent the peaceful transition of power. 
            Efforts to Avoid Testifying, Evidence of Obstruction, and Assessments of Witness Credibility
            More than 30 witnesses before the Select Committee exercised their Fifth Amendment
               privilege against self-incrimination and refused on that basis to provide testimony.
               They included individuals central to the investigation, such as John Eastman, Jeffrey
               Clark, Roger Stone, Michael Flynn, Kenneth Chesebro, and others.683  The law allows a civil litigant to rely upon an adverse inference when a witness
               invokes the Fifth Amendment.  [T]he Fifth Amendment does not forbid adverse inferences
               against parties to civil actions . . ..684 The Committee has not chosen to rely on any such inference in this Report or in its
               hearings.  
            We do note that certain witness assertions of the Fifth Amendment were particularly
               troubling, including this:
            Vice Chair Cheney:  General Flynn, do you believe the violence on January 6th was
               justified?
            Counsel for the Witness:  Can I get clarification, is that a moral question or are
               you asking a legal question? 
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Im asking both.
            General Flynn:  The Fifth.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Do you believe the violence on January 6th was justified morally?
            General Flynn:  Take the Fifth.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Do you believe the violence on January 6th was justified legally?
            General Flynn:  Fifth.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  General Flynn, do you believe in the peaceful transition of power
               in the United States of America?
            General Flynn:  The Fifth.685
            President Trump refused to comply with the Committees subpoena, and also filed suit
               to block the National Archives from supplying the Committee with White House records.
               The Committee litigated the National Archives case in Federal District Court, in the
               Federal Appellate Court for the District of Columbia, and before the Supreme Court.
               The Select Committee was successful in this litigation.  The opinion of the D.C. Circuit
               explained:
            On January 6, 2021, a mob professing support for then-President Trump violently attacked
               the United States Capitol in an effort to prevent a Joint Session of Congress from
               certifying the electoral college votes designating Joseph R. Biden the 46th President
               of the United States.  The rampage left multiple people dead, injured more than 140
               people, and inflicted millions of dollars in damage to the Capitol.  Then-Vice President
               Pence, Senators, and Representatives were all forced to halt their constitutional
               duties and flee the House and Senate chambers for safety.686
            Benjamin Franklin said, at the founding, that we have [a] Republicif [we] can
               keep it. The events of January 6th exposed the fragility of those democratic institutions
               and traditions that we had perhaps come to take for granted.  In response, the President
               of the United States and Congress have each made the judgment that access to this
               subset of presidential communication records is necessary to address a matter of great
               constitutional moment for the Republic.  Former President Trump has given this court
               no legal reason to cast aside President Bidens assessment of the Executive Branch
               interests at stake, or to create a separation of powers conflict that the Political
               Branches have avoided.687  
            Several other witnesses have also avoided testifying in whole or in part by asserting
               Executive Privilege or Absolute Immunity from any obligation to appear before Congress.
               For example, the Presidents Chief of Staff Mark Meadows invoked both, and categorically
               refused to testify, even about text messages he provided to the Committee.  The House
               of Representatives voted to hold him in criminal contempt.688  Although the Justice Department has taken the position in litigation that a former
               high level White House staffer for a former President is not entitled to absolute
               immunity,689 and that any interests in the confidentiality of his communications with President
               Trump and others are overcome in this case, the Justice Department declined to prosecute
               Meadows for criminal contempt.  The reasons for Justices refusal to do so are not
               apparent to the Committee.690  Commentators have speculated that Meadows may be cooperating in the Justice Departments
               January 6th investigation.691  The same may be true for Daniel Scavino, President Trumps White House Deputy Chief
               of Staff for Communications and Director of Social Media, whom the House also voted
               to hold in contempt.692  
            Steve Bannon also chose not to cooperate with the Committee, and the Justice Department
               prosecuted him for contempt of Congress.693   Bannon has been sentenced and is currently appealing his conviction.  Peter Navarro,
               another White House Staffer who refused to testify, is currently awaiting his criminal
               trial.694
            Although the Committee issued letters and subpoenas to seven Republican members of
               Congress who have unique knowledge of certain developments on or in relation to January
               6th, none agreed to participate in the investigation; none considered themselves obligated
               to comply with the subpoenas.  A number of these same individuals were aware well
               in advance of January 6th of the plotting by Donald Trump, John Eastman, and others
               to overturn the election, and certain of them had an active role in that activity.695  None seem to have alerted law enforcement of this activity, or of the known risk
               of violence.  On January 5th, after promoting unfounded objections to election results,
               Rep. Debbie Lesko appears to have recognized the danger in a call with her colleagues:
            I also ask leadership to come up with a safety plan for Members [of Congress]. . .
               .  We also have, quite honestly, Trump supporters who actually believe that we are
               going to overturn the election, and when that doesnt happenmost likely will not
               happenthey are going to go nuts.696 
            During our hearings, the Committee presented the testimony of numerous White House
               witnesses who testified about efforts by certain Republican Members of Congress to
               obtain Presidential pardons for their conduct in connection with January 6th.697  Cassidy Hutchinson provided extensive detail in this regard:
            Vice Chair Cheney:  And are you aware of any members of Congress seeking pardons?
            Hutchinson:  I guess Mr. Gaetz and Mr. Brooks, I know, have both advocated for thered
               be a blanket pardon for members involved in that meeting, and a  a handful of other
               members that werent at the December 21st meeting as the presumptive pardons. Mr.
               Gaetz was personally pushing for a pardon, and he was doing so since early December.
            Im not sure why Mr. Gaetz would reach out to me to ask if he could have a meeting
               with Mr. Meadows about receiving a presidential pardon.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Did they all contact you?
            Hutchinson:  Not all of them, but several of them did.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  So, you mentioned Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Brooks.
            Hutchinson:  Mr. Biggs did. Mr. Jordan talked about Congressional pardons, but he
               never asked me for one. It was more for an update on whether the White House was going
               to pardon members of Congress. Mr. Gohmert asked for one as well. Mr. Perry asked
               for a pardon, too. Im sorry.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Mr. Perry? Did he talk to you directly?
            Hutchinson:  Yes, he did.
            Vice Chair Cheney:  Did Marjorie Taylor Greene contact you?
            Hutchinson:  No, she didnt contact me about it. I heard that she had asked White
               House Counsels Office for a pardon from Mr. Philbin, but I didnt frequently communicate
               with Ms. Greene.698
            Many of these details were also corroborated by other sources.  President Personnel
               Director Johnny McEntee confirmed that he was personally asked for a pardon by Representative
               Matt Gaetz (RFL).699  Eric Herschmann recalled that Representative Gaetz . . . asked for a very, very
               broad pardon.. . .  And I said Nixons pardon was never nearly that broad.700  When asked about reporting that Representatives Mo Brooks and Andy Biggs also requested
               pardons, Herschmann did not reject either possibility out of hand, instead answering:
               Its possible that Representative Brooks or Biggs, but I dont remember.701  The National Archives produced to the Select Committee an email from Representative
               Mo Brooks to the Presidents executive assistant stating that President Trump asked
               me to send you this letter and . . . pursuant to a request from Matt Gaetz that
               recommended blanket Presidential pardons to every Member of Congress who objected
               to the electoral college votes on January 6th.702  
            These requests for pardons suggest that the Members identified above were conscious
               of the potential legal jeopardy arising from their conduct.  As noted infra 136, the Committee has referred a number of these individuals to the House Ethics Committee
               for their failure to comply with subpoenas, and believes that they each owe the American
               people their direct and unvarnished testimony.  
            The Select Committee has also received a range of evidence suggesting specific efforts
               to obstruct the Committees investigation.  Much of this evidence is already known
               by the Department of Justice and by other prosecutorial authorities.  For example:
            1. The Committee received testimony from a witness about her decision to terminate
               a lawyer who was receiving payments for the representation from a group allied with
               President Trump.  Among other concerns expressed by the witness:
            
               The lawyer had advised the witness that the witness could, in certain circumstances,
                  tell the Committee that she did not recall facts when she actually did recall them.
               During a break in the Select Committees interview, the witness expressed concerns
                  to her lawyer that an aspect of her testimony was not truthful.  The lawyer did not
                  advise her to clarify the specific testimony that the witness believed was not complete
                  and accurate, and instead conveyed that, They dont know what you know, [witness]. They dont know that you can recall some
                  of these things. So you saying I dont recall is an entirely acceptable response
                  to this.
               The lawyer instructed the client about a particular issue that would cast a bad light
                  on President Trump: No, no, no, no, no.  We dont want to go there.  We dont want
                  to talk about that.
               The lawyer refused directions from the client not to share her testimony before the
                  Committee with other lawyers representing other witnesses.  The lawyer shared such
                  information over the clients objection.
               The lawyer refused directions from the client not to share information regarding her
                  testimony with at least one and possibly more than one member of the press.  The lawyer
                  shared the information with the press over her objection.
               The lawyer did not disclose who was paying for the lawyers representation of the
                  client, despite questions from the client seeking that information, and told her,
                  were not telling people where funding is coming from right now.
               The client was offered potential employment that would make her financially very
                  comfortable as the date of her testimony approached by entities apparently linked
                  to Donald Trump and his associates.  Such offers were withdrawn or did not materialize
                  as reports of the content of her testimony circulated.  The client believed this was
                  an effort to impact her testimony.
            
            Further details regarding these instances will be available to the public when transcripts
               are released.
            2. Similarly, the witness testified that multiple persons affiliated with President
               Trump contacted her in advance of the witnesss testimony and made the following statements:
            What they said to me is, as long as I continue to be a team player, they know that
               I am on the right team. I am doing the right thing. I am protecting who I need to
               protect. You know, I will continue to stay in good graces in Trump World. And they
               have reminded me a couple of times that Trump does read transcripts and just keep
               that in mind as I proceed through my interviews with the committee.
            Here is another sample in a different context. This is a call received by one of our
               witnesses:
            [A person] let me know you have your deposition tomorrow. He wants me to let you know
               hes thinking about you. He knows youre a team player, youre loyal, and youre going
               do the right thing when you go in for your deposition.703
            3. The Select Committee is aware of multiple efforts by President Trump to contact
               Select Committee witnesses.  The Department of Justice is aware of at least one of
               those circumstances.  
            4. Rather than relying on representation by Secret Service lawyers at no cost, a small
               number of Secret Service agents engaged private counsel for their interviews before
               the Committee.704 During one such witnesss transcribed interview, a retained private counsel was observed
               writing notes to the witness regarding the content of the witnesss testimony while
               the questioning was underway.  The witnesss counsel admitted on the record that he
               had done so.705
            Recently, published accounts of the Justice Departments Mar-a-Lago investigation
               suggest that the Department is investigating the conduct of counsel for certain witnesses
               whose fees are being paid by President Trumps Save America Political Action Committee.706  The public report implies the Department is concerned that such individuals are
               seeking to influence the testimony of the witnesses they represent.707  This Committee also has these concerns, including that lawyers who are receiving
               such payments have specific incentives to defend President Trump rather than zealously
               represent their own clients.  The Department of Justice and the Fulton County District
               Attorney have been provided with certain information related to this topic. 
            The Select Committee recognizes of course that most of the testimony we have gathered
               was given more than a year after January 6th.  Recollections are not perfect, and
               the Committee expects that different accounts of the same events will naturally vary.
               Indeed, the lack of any inconsistencies in witness accounts would itself be suspicious.
               And many witnesses may simply recall different things than others. 
            Many of the witnesses before this Committee had nothing at all to gain from their
               testimony, gave straightforward responses to the questions posted, and made no effort
               to downplay, deflect, or rationalize.  Trump Administration Justice Department officials
               such as Attorney General Barr, Acting Attorney General Rosen, and Acting Deputy Attorney
               General Donoghue are good examples.  Multiple members of President Trumps White House
               staff were also suitably forthcoming, including Sarah Matthews, Matthew Pottinger,
               Greg Jacob, and Pat Philbin, as were multiple career White House and agency personnel
               whose names the Committee agreed not to disclose publicly; as were former Secretary
               of Labor Eugene Scalia, Bill Stepien, and certain other members of the Trump Campaign.
               The Committee very much appreciates the earnestness and bravery of Cassidy Hutchinson,
               Rusty Bowers, Shaye Moss, Ruby Freeman, Brad Raffensperger, Gabriel Sterling, Al Schmidt,
               and many others who provided important live testimony during the Committees hearings.708  
            The Committee, along with our nation, offers particular thanks to Officers Caroline
               Edwards, Michael Fanone, Harry Dunn, Aquilino Gonell, and Daniel Hodges, along with
               hundreds of other members of law enforcement who defended the Capitol on that fateful
               day, all of whom should be commended for their bravery and sacrifice.  We especially
               thank the families of Officer Brian Sicknick, Howard Liebengood and Jeffrey Smith,
               whose loss can never be repaid.
            The Committee very much appreciates the invaluable testimony of General Milley and
               other members of our military, Judge J. Michael Luttig, and the important contributions
               of Benjamin Ginsberg and Chris Stirewalt. This, of course is only a partial list,
               and the Committee is indebted to many others, as well.
            The Committee believes that White House Counsel Pat Cipollone gave a particularly
               important account of the events of January 6th, as did White House lawyer, Eric Herschmann.
               For multiple months, Cipollone resisted giving any testimony at all, asserting concerns
               about executive privilege and other issues, until after the Committees hearing with
               Hutchinson.  When he did testify,  Cipollone corroborated key elements of testimony
               given by several White House staff, including  Hutchinsonmost importantly, regarding
               what happened in the White House during the violence of January 6thbut also frankly
               recognized the limits on what he could say due to privilege: Again, Im not going
               to get into either my legal advice on matters, and the other thing I dont want to
               do is, again, other witnesses have their own recollections of things.   Cipollone
               also told the Committee that, to the extent that other witnesses recall communications
               attributable to White House counsel that he does not, the communications might have
               been with his deputy Pat Philbin, or with Eric Herschmann, who had strong feelings
               and was particularly animated about certain issues.709 
            Of course, that is not to say that all witnesses were entirely frank or forthcoming.
               Other witnesses, including certain witnesses from the Trump White House, displayed
               a lack of full recollection of certain issues, or were not otherwise as frank or direct
               as  Cipollone.  We cite two examples here, both relating to testimony played during
               the hearings.
            Kayleigh McEnany was President Trumps Press Secretary on January 6th. Her deposition
               was taken early in the investigation.   McEnany seemed to acknowledge that President
               Trump: (1) should have instructed his violent supporters to leave the Capitol earlier
               than he ultimately did on January 6th;710 (2) should have respected the rulings of the courts;711 and (3) was wrong to publicly allege that Dominion voting machines stole the election.712  But a segment of  McEnanys testimony seemed evasive, as if she was testifying from
               pre-prepared talking points.  In multiple instances,  McEnanys testimony did not
               seem nearly as forthright as that of her press office staff, who testified about what
               McEnany said.
            For example, McEnany disputed suggestions that President Trump was resistant to condemning
               the violence and urging the crowd at the Capitol to act peacefully when they crafted
               his tweet at 2:38 p.m. on January 6th.713 Yet one of her deputies, Sarah Matthews, told the Select Committee that  McEnany
               informed her otherwise: that McEnany and other advisors in the dining room with President
               Trump persuaded him to send the tweet, but that . . . she said that he did not want
               to put that in and that they went through different phrasing of that, of the mention
               of peace, in order to get him to agree to include it, and that it was Ivanka Trump
               who came up with stay peaceful and that he agreed to that phrasing to include in
               the tweet, but he was initially resistant to mentioning peace of any sort.714  When the Select Committee asked Did Ms. McEnany describe in any way how resistant
               the President was to including something about being peaceful,  Matthews answered:
               Just that he didnt want to include it, but they got him to agree on the phrasing
               stay peaceful.715  
            The Committee invites the public to compare  McEnanys testimony with the testimony
               of Pat Cipollone, Sarah Matthews, Judd Deere, and others.
            Ivanka Trump is another example.  Among other things, Ivanka Trump acknowledged to
               the Committee that: (1) she agreed with Attorney General Barrs statements that there
               was no evidence of sufficient fraud to overturn the election; (2) the President and
               others are bound by the rulings of the courts and the rule of law; (3) President Trump
               pressured Vice President Pence on the morning of January 6th regarding his authorities
               at the joint session of Congress that day to count electoral votes; and (4) President
               Trump watched the violence on television as it was occurring.716  But again, Ivanka Trump was not as forthcoming as  Cipollone and others about President
               Trumps conduct.  
            Indeed, Ivanka Trumps Chief of Staff Julie Radford had a more specific recollection
               of Ivanka Trumps actions and statements.  For example, Ivanka Trump had the following
               exchange with the Committee about her attendance at her fathers speech on January
               6th that was at odds with what the Committee learned from Radford:
            Committee Staff:  Its been reported that you ultimately decided to attend the rally
               because you hoped that you would calm the President and keep the event on an even
               keel.  Is that accurate?
            Ivanka Trump:  No.  I dont know who said that or where that came from.717
            However, this is what Radford said about her bosss decision:
            Committee Staff:  What did she share with you about why it was concerning that her
               father was upset or agitated after that call with Vice President Pence in relation
               to the Ellipse rally?  Why did that matter?  Why did he have to be calmed down, I
               should say.
            Radford:  Well, she shared that he had called the Vice President a notan expletive
               word.  I think that bothered her.  And I think she could tell based on the conversations
               and what was going on in the office that he was angry and upset and people were providing
               misinformation.  And she felt like she might be able to help calm the situation down,
               at least before he went on stage.
            Committee Staff:  And the word that she relayed to you that the President called the
               Vice Presidentapologize for being impolitebut do you remember what she said her
               father called him?
            Radford:  The P word.718
            When the Committee asked Ivanka Trump whether there were [a]ny particular words that
               you recall your father using during the conversation that morning with Vice President
               Pence, she answered simply: No.719
            In several circumstances, the Committee has found that less senior White House aides
               had significantly better recollection of events than senior staff purported to have.
               
            The Select Committee also has concerns regarding certain other witnesses, including
               those who still rely for their income or employment on organizations linked to President
               Trump, such as the America First Policy Institute. Certain witnesses and lawyers were
               unnecessarily combative, answered hundreds of questions with variants of I do not
               recall in circumstances where that answer seemed unbelievable, appeared to testify
               from lawyer-written talking points rather than their own recollections, provided highly
               questionable rationalizations or otherwise resisted telling the truth.  The public
               can ultimately make its own assessment of these issues when it reviews the Committee
               transcripts and can compare the accounts of different witnesses and the conduct of
               counsel.
            One particular concern arose from what the Committee realized early on were a number
               of intentional falsehoods in former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadowss December
               7, 2021 book, The Chiefs Chief. 720  Here is one of several examples:  Meadows wrote, When he got offstage, President
               Trump let me know that he had been speaking metaphorically about going to the Capitol.721  Meadows goes on in his book to claim that it was clear the whole time President
               Trump didnt intend to go to the Capitol.722  This appeared to be an intentional effort to conceal the facts.  Multiple witnesses
               directly contradicted Meadowss account about President Trumps desire to travel to
               the Capitol, including Kayleigh McEnany, Cassidy Hutchinson, multiple Secret Service
               agents, a White House employee with national security responsibilities and other staff
               in the White House, a member of the Metropolitan Police and others.  This and several
               other statements in the Meadows book were false, and the Select Committee was concerned
               that multiple witnesses might attempt to repeat elements of these false accounts,
               as if they were the party line.  Most witnesses did not, but a few did.
            President Trumps desire to travel to the Capitol was particularly important for the
               Committee to evaluate because it bears on President Trumps intent on January 6th.
               One witness account suggests that President Trump even wished to participate in the
               electoral vote count from the House floor, standing with Republican Congressmen, perhaps
               in an effort to apply further pressure to Vice President Mike Pence and others.723
            Mark Meadowss former Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations Anthony Ornato gave testimony
               consistent with the false account in Meadowss book.  In particular,  Ornato told
               the Committee that he was not aware of a genuine push by the President to go to the
               Capitol, suggesting instead that it was one of those hypotheticals from the good
               idea fairy . . . [b]ecause its ridiculous to think that a President of the United
               States can travel especially with, you know, people around just on the street up to
               the Capitol and peacefully protest outside the Capitol . . .. 724  He told the Select Committee that the only conversation he had about the possibility
               of the President traveling to the Capitol was in a single meeting officials from the
               Presidents advance team,725 and his understanding is that this idea wasnt from the President.726  Two witnesses before the Committee, including a White House employee with national
               security responsibilities and  Hutchinson, testified that  Ornato related an account
               of President Trumps irate behavior when he was told in the Presidential SUV on
               January 6th that he would not be driven to the Capitol.727  Both accounts recall  Ornato doing so from his office in the White House, with another
               member of the Secret Service present.728 Multiple other witness accounts indicate that the President genuinely was irate,
               heated, angry, and insistent in the Presidential vehicle.729  But  Ornato professed that he did not recall either communication, and that he had
               no knowledge at all about the Presidents anger.730  
            Likewise, despite a significant and increasing volume of intelligence information
               in the days before January 6th showing that violence at the Capitol was indeed possible
               or likely, and despite other intelligence and law enforcement agencies similar conclusions,731  Ornato claimed never to have reviewed or had any knowledge of that specific information732 He testified that he was only aware of warnings that opposing groups might clash
               on the Washington Monument and that is what he would have briefed to [Chief of Staff]
               Meadows.733 The Committee has significant concerns about the credibility of this testimony, including
               because it was Ornatos responsibility to be aware of this information and convey
               it to decisionmakers.734  The Committee will release  Ornatos November Transcript so the public can review
               his testimony on these topics. 
            Summary:  Creation of the Select Committee; Purposes.
            In the week after January 6th, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy initially supported
               legislation to create a bipartisan commission to investigate the January 6th attack
               on the United States Capitol, stating that the President bears responsibility for
               Wednesdays attack on Congress by mob rioters and calling for creation of a fact-finding
               commission.735 Leader McCarthy repeated his support for a bipartisan commission during a press conference
               on January 21st: The only way you will be able to answer these questions is through
               a bipartisan commission.736
            On February 15th, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced in a letter to the House Democratic
               Caucus her intent to establish the type of independent commission McCarthy had supported,
               to investigate and report on the facts and causes relating to the January 6, 2021
               domestic terrorist attack upon the United States Capitol Complex.737 A few days thereafter, Leader McCarthy provided the Speaker a wish list that mirrored
               suggestions from the Co-Chairs of the 9/11 Commission that he and House Republicans
               hoped would be included in the Houses legislation to establish the Commission.738 
            In particular, Leader McCarthy requested an equal ratio of Democratic and Republican
               nominations, equal subpoena power for the Democratic Chair and Republican Vice Chair
               of the Commission, and the exclusion of predetermined findings or outcomes that the
               Commission itself would produce. Closing his letter, Leader McCarthy quoted the 9/11
               Commission Co-Chairs, writing that a bipartisan independent investigation will earn
               credibility with the American public.739 He again repeated his confidence in achieving that goal.740 In April 2021, Speaker Pelosi agreed to make the number of Republican and Democratic
               Members of the Commission equal, and to provide both parties with an equal say in
               subpoenas, as McCarthy had requested.741
            In May 2021, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie G. Thompson began to
               negotiate more of the details for the Commission with his Republican counterpart,
               Ranking Member John Katko.742 On May 14th, Chairman Thompson announced that he and Ranking Member Katko had reached
               an agreement on legislation to form a bipartisan, independent Commission to investigate
               the January 6th domestic terrorism attack on the United States Capitol and recommend
               changes to further protect the Capitol, the citadel of our democracy.743 
            On May 18th, the day before the Houses consideration of the Thompson-Katko agreement,
               Leader McCarthy released a statement in opposition to the legislation.744  Speaker Pelosi responded to that statement, saying: Leader McCarthy wont take
               yes for an answer.745 The Speaker referred to Leader McCarthys February 22nd letter where he made three
               requests to be addressed in Democrats discussion draft.746 She noted that every single one was granted by Democrats, yet he still says no.747
            In the days that followed, Republican Ranking Member Katko defended the bipartisan
               nature of the bill to create the Commission:
            As I have called for since the days just after the attack, an independent, 9/11-style
               review is critical for removing the politics around January 6 and focusing solely
               on the facts and circumstances of the security breach at the Capitol, as well as other
               instances of violence relevant to such a review. Make no mistake about it, Mr. Thompson
               and I know this is about facts. Its not partisan politics. We would have never gotten
               to this point if it was about partisan politics.748
            That evening, the House passed the legislation to establish a National Commission
               to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol Complex in a bipartisan
               fashion, with 35 Republicans joining 217 Democrats voting in favor and 175 Republicans
               voting against.749 In the days thereafter, however, only six Senate Republicans joined Senate Democrats
               in supporting the legislation, killing the bill in the Senate.750 
            On June 24th, Speaker Pelosi announced her intent to create a House select committee
               to investigate the attack.751 On June 25th, Leader McCarthy met with DC Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Fanone,
               who was seriously injured on January 6th.752 Officer Fanone pressed Leader McCarthy for a commitment not to put obstructionists
               and the wrong people in that position.753
            On June 30th, the House voted on H. Res. 503 to establish a 13-Member Select Committee
               to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol by a vote of 222
               Yeas and 190 Nays with just two Republicans supporting the measure: Representative
               Liz Cheney and Representative Adam Kinzinger.754  On July 1st, Speaker Pelosi named eight initial Members to the Select Committee,
               including one Republican: Representative Cheney.755
            On July 17th, Leader McCarthy proposed his selection of five members:
            Representative Jim Jordan, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee;
            Representative Kelly Armstrong of North Dakota; House Energy and Commerce Committee;
            Representative Troy Nehls, House Transportation &amp; Infrastructure and Veterans Affairs
                  Committees.
            Representative Jim Banks, Armed Services, Veterans Affairs and Education and Labor
                  Committees;
            Representative Rodney Davis, Ranking Member of the Committee on House Administration.756
            Jordan was personally involved in the acts and circumstances of January 6th, and would
               be one of the targets of the investigation.  By that point, Banks had made public
               statements indicating that he had already reached his own conclusions and had no intention
               of cooperating in any objective investigation of January 6th, proclaiming, for example,
               that the Select Committee was created . . . solely to malign conservatives and to
               justify the Lefts authoritarian agenda.757
            On July 21st, Speaker Nancy Pelosi exercised her power under H. Res. 503 not to approve
               the appointments of Representatives Jordan or Banks, expressing concern about statements
               made and actions taken by these Members and the impact their appointments may have
               on the integrity of the investigation.758  However, she also stated that she had informed Leader McCarthy . . . that I was
               prepared to appoint Representatives Rodney Davis, Kelly Armstrong and Troy Nehls,
               and requested that he recommend two other Members.759 
            In response, Leader McCarthy elected to remove all five of his Republican appointments, refusing to allow Representatives Armstrong, Davis
               and Nehls to participate on the Select Committee.760 On July 26, 2021, Speaker Pelosi then appointed Republican Representative Adam Kinzinger.761  In resisting the Committees subpoenas, certain litigants attempted to argue that
               the Select Committees composition violated House Rules or H. Res. 503, but those
               arguments failed in court.762
            Select Committee Witnesses Were Almost Entirely Republican
            In its ten hearings or business meetings, the Select Committee called live testimony
               or played video for several dozen witnesses, the vast majority of whom were Republicans.
               A full list is set forth below.   
            Republicans: 
            
               John McEntee (served as Director of the White House Presidential Personnel Office in the Trump
                  Administration)
               Judd Deere (served as Deputy Assistant to the President and White House Deputy Press Secretary
                  in the Trump Administration)
               Jared Kushner (served as a Senior Advisor to President Donald Trump)
               Pat Cipollone (served as White House Counsel for President Donald Trump)
               Eric Herschmann (served as a Senior Advisor to President Donald Trump)
               Kayleigh McEnany (served as White House Press Secretary in Trump Administration)
               Derek Lyons (served as White House Staff Secretary and Counselor to the President in the Trump
                  Administration)
               Cassidy Hutchinson (served as Assistant to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows in the Trump Administration)
               Matt Pottinger (served as Deputy National Security Advisor in the Trump Administration)
               Ben Williamson (served as Senior Advisor to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows)
               Sarah Matthews (served as Deputy Press Secretary in the Trump Administration)
               William Barr (served as Attorney General in the Trump Administration) 
               Mike Pompeo (served as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and Secretary of State in
                  the Trump Administration)
               Ivanka Trump (served as a Senior Advisor and Director of the Office of Economic Initiatives and
                  Entrepreneurship in the Trump Administration)
               Donald Trump Jr. (eldest child of Donald Trump)
               Molly Michael (served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Executive Assistant to the President)
               Tim Murtaugh (served as Director of Communications for the Trump 2020 Presidential  campaign)
               Richard Donoghue (served as Acting Deputy Attorney General in the Trump Administration)
               Jeffrey Rosen (served as Acting Attorney General in the Trump Administration)
               Steven Engel (served as Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel in the Trump
                  Administration)
               Marc Short (served as Chief of Staff to Vice President Mike Pence)
               Greg Jacob (served as Counsel to Vice President Mike Pence)
               Keith Kellogg (served as National Security Advisor to Vice President Mike Pence)
               Chris Hodgson (served as Director of Legislative Affairs for Vice President Mike Pence)
               Douglas Macgregor (served as advisor to the Secretary of Defense in the Trump Administration)
               Jason Miller (served as spokesman for the Donald Trump 2016 Presidential Campaign and was a Senior
                  Advisor to the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign)
               Alex Cannon (Counsel for the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign)
               Bill Stepien (served as the Campaign Manager for the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign and was
                  the White House Director of Political Affairs in the Trump Administration from 2017
                  to 2018)
               Rudolph Giuliani (an attorney for Donald Trump)
               John Eastman (an attorney for Donald Trump) 
               Michael Flynn (served as National Security Advisor in the Trump Administration)
               Eugene Scalia (served as the Secretary of Labor in the Trump Administration)
               Matthew Morgan (General Counsel for the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign)
               Sidney Powell (an attorney and advisor to Donald Trump)
               Jeffrey Clark (served as Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division in the Trump Administration)
               Cleta Mitchell (an attorney working with the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign)
               Ronna Romney McDaniel (Chair of the Republican National Committee)
               Justin Clark (served as Deputy Campaign Manager for the Trump 2020 Presidential Campaign)
               Robert Sinners (Georgia State Director of Election Day Operations for the Trump 2020 Presidential
                  Campaign)
               Andrew Hitt (Wisconsin Republican Party Chair)
               Laura Cox (Michigan Republican Party Chair)
               Mike Shirkey (Majority Leader, Michigan State Senate)
               Bryan Cutler (Speaker, Pennsylvania House of Representatives)
               Rusty Bowers (Speaker, Arizona House of Representatives)
               Brad Raffensperger (Georgia Secretary of State)
               Gabriel Sterling (Georgia Secretary of State, Chief Operating Officer)
               BJay Pak (served as United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia in the Trump
                  Administration)
               Al Schmidt (City Commissioner of Philadelphia)
               Chris Stirewalt (Fox News Political Editor)
               Benjamin Ginsberg (Election Attorney)
               J. Michael Luttig (Retired judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and informal
                  advisor to Vice President Mike Pence)
               Katrina Pierson (served as a liaison for the White House and organizers at Donald Trumps Save America
                  rally on January 6th)
               Nicholas Luna (served as Personal Aide to President Trump)
               Stephen Miller (served as Senior Advisor to President Trump)
               Vincent Haley (served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Advisor for Policy, Strategy and
                  Speechwriting in the Trump Administration)
               Julie Radford (Chief of Staff to Ivanka Trump in the Trump Administration)
               Mick Mulvaney (former Acting Chief of Staff and Special Envoy for Northern Ireland in the Trump
                  Administration)
               Elaine Chao (Secretary of Transportation in the Trump Administration) 
               Roger Stone (Trump associate) 
            
            Democrats:
            
               Jocelyn Benson (Michigan Secretary of State)
            
            Other:
            
               U.S. Capitol Police Officer Harry Dunn
               DC Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Fanone 
               U.S. Capitol Police Sgt. Aquilino Gonell
               DC Metropolitan Police Officer Daniel Hodges
               General Mark Milley (Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff)
               U.S. Capitol Police Officer Caroline Edwards
               Nick Quested (award-winning British filmmaker)
               Robert Schornack (sentenced to 36 months probation)
               Eric Barber (charged with theft and unlawful demonstration in the Capitol)
               John Wright (awaiting trial for felony civil disorder and other charges)
               George Meza (Proud Boy)
               Daniel Herendeen (sentenced to 36 months probation for role in Capitol attack)
               Matthew Walter (Proud Boy)
               Wandrea ArShaye Shaye Moss (Georgia election worker)
               Ruby Freeman ( Georgia election worker)
               Anika Collier Navaroli (former Twitter employee)
               White House Security Official
               Jim Watkins (Founder and owner, 8kun)
               Jody Williams (former owner of TheDonald.win)
               Dr. Donell Harvin (Chief of Homeland Security and Intelligence for the government of the District of
                  Columbia)
               Kellye SoRelle (attorney for Oath Keepers)
               Shealah Craighead (White House Photographer)
               Jason Van Tatenhove (former Oath Keepers spokesperson)
               Stephen Ayres (plead guilty to disorderly and disruptive conduct related to Capitol attack)
               Sgt. Mark Robinson (Ret.) (Metropolitan Police Department)
               Janet Buhler (pleaded guilty to charges related to the Capitol attack)
            
            
               ENDNOTES
               1.  A few weeks later, Rhodes and his associate Kelly Meggs were found guilty of seditious conspiracy, and other Oath Keepers were found guilty
                  on numerous charges for obstructing the electoral count. Trial Transcript at 10502-508, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2022); Alan Feuer and Zach Montague, Oath Keepers
                  Leader Convicted of Sedition in Landmark Jan. 6 Case, New York Times, (Nov. 29, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/29/us/politics/oath-keepers-trial-verdict-jan-6.html. 
               2.  Trial Transcript at 5698, 5759, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 31, 2022).
               3.  Trial Transcript at 5775, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 31, 2022) (for me at the time, it meant I felt it was
                  like a Bastille type moment in history where in the French Revolution it was that
                  big turning point moment where the population made their presence felt. I thought
                  it was going to be a similar type of event for us).
               4.  Trial Transcript at 5783, 5866, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 31, 2022).
               5.  Sentencing Transcript at 15-17, United States v. Reimler, No. 1:21-cr-239 (D.D.C. Jan. 11, 2022), ECF No. 37.
               6.  Sentencing Transcript at 33, United States v. Pert, No. 1:21-cr-139 (D.D.C. Feb. 11, 2022), ECF No. 64.
               7.  Sentencing Memorandum by Abram Markofski, Exhibit B, United States v. Markofski, No. 1:21-cr-344 (D.D.C. Dec. 2, 2021), ECF No. 44-2.
               8.  Sentencing Transcript at 49, United States v. Witcher, No. 1:21-cr-235 (D.D.C. Feb. 24, 2022), ECF No. 53.
               9.  Sentencing Transcript at 1920, United States v. Edwards, No. 1:21-cr-366 (D.D.C. Jan. 21, 2022), ECF No. 33. See also, Sentencing Memorandum by Brandon Nelson, Exhibit B, United States v. Nelson, No. 1:21-cr-344 (D.D.C. Dec. 6, 2021), ECF No. 51-2; Sentencing Transcript at 6566,
                  United States v. Griffith, No. 1:21-cr-204 (D.D.C. Oct. 30, 2021), ECF No. 137; Sentencing Transcript at 45,
                  United States v. Schornak, 1:21-cr-278 (D.D.C. May 11, 2022), ECF No. 90; Sentencing Transcript at 35, United States v. Wilkerson, No. 1:21-cr-302 (D.D.C. Nov. 22, 2021), ECF No. 31; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric
                  Barber, (Mar. 16, 2022), pp. 5051.
               10.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Sandlin, No. 1:21-cr-88 (D.D.C. Jan. 20, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Ryan J. Reily (@ryanjreily), Twitter Oct. 1, 2022 3:33 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/ryanjreilly/status/1576295667412017157; Ryan J. Reily (@ryanjreily), Twitter, Oct. 1, 2022 3:40 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/ryanjreilly/status/1576296016512692225; Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 2, 16, United States v. Sandlin, No. 1:21-cr-88 (D.D.C. Dec. 2, 2022), ECF No. 92.
               11.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Motion to Revoke Magistrate Judges Detention
                  Order at 4, United States v. Miller, No. 1:21-cr-119 (D.D.C. Mar. 29, 2021), ECF No 16; Dan Mangan, Capitol Rioter Garret
                  Miller Says He Was Following Trumps Orders, Apologizes to AOC for Threat, CNBC,
                  (Jan. 25, 2021), available at https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/25/capitol-riots-garret-miller-says-he-was-following-trumps-orders-apologizes-to-aoc.html. 
               12.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of John Douglas Wright, (Mar. 31, 2022), pp. 22, 63.
               13.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Lewis Cantwell, (Apr. 26, 2022), p. 54.
               14.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Stephen Ayres, (June 22, 2022), p. 8.
               15.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               16.  Affidavit at 8, United States v. Ayres, No. 1:21-cr-156 (D.D.C. Jan. 22, 2021), ECF No. 5-1.
               17.  See infra, Chapter 6. See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Chart Compiling Defendant Statements).
                  The Select Committee Chart Compiling Defendant Statements identifies hundreds of examples
                  of such testimony. Select Committee staff tracked cases filed by the Department of
                  Justice against defendants who committed crimes related to the attack on the United
                  States Capitol. Through Department of Justice criminal filings, through public reporting,
                  through social media research, and through court hearings, staff collected a range
                  of statements by these defendants about why they came to Washington, DC, on January
                  6th. Almost always, it was because President Trump had called upon them to support
                  his big lie. Those defendants also discussed plans for violence at the Capitol, against
                  law enforcement, against other American citizens, and against elected officials in
                  the days leading up to January 6th. In the days immediately following the attack,
                  defendants also bragged about their conduct. Some defendants later reflected on their
                  actions at sentencing. The Select Committee Chart Compiling Defendant Statements is
                  not meant to be comprehensive or polished; it is a small sampling of the tremendous
                  work the Department of Justice has done tracking down and prosecuting criminal activity
                  during the attempted insurrection. Moreover, the trial of multiple members of the Proud Boys on seditious conspiracy
                  and other charges is set to begin on December 19, 2022, and may provide additional information directly relevant to this topic. See Court Calendar: December 9, 2022December 31, 2022, United States District Court
                  for the District of Columbia, available at https://media.dcd.uscourts.gov/datepicker/index.html (last accessed Dec. 9, 2022); Alan Feuer, Outcome in Oath Keepers Trial Could Hold
                  Lessons for Coming Jan. 6 Cases, New York Times, (Nov. 30, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/30/us/politics/oath-keepers-stewart-rhodes.html. 
               18.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000001890_00001
                  (December 28, 2020, email from Bernard Kerik to Mark Meadows explaining that [w]e can do all the investigations we want later);
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000005090_0001
                  (January. 6, 2021, email from John Eastman to Gregory Jacob acknowledging that President
                  Trump had been so advised that Vice President Pence DOES NOT have the power to
                  decide things unilaterally); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th (Russell Rusty Bowers testimony recalling Rudolph Giuliani stating that [w]eve got lots of theories; we just dont have the evidence); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 128 (Whether Rudy was at this stage of his life in the same abilities
                  to manage things at this level or not, I mean, obviously, I think Bernie Kerik publicly said it, they never proved the allegations that they were making, and they
                  were trying to develop.)  Note: Some documents cited in this report show timestamps based on a time zone other than
                  Eastern Timesuch as Greenwich Mean Timebecause that is how they were produced to
                  the Committee. 
               19.  The Committee notes that a number of these findings are similar to those Federal
                  Judge David Carter reached after reviewing the evidence presented by the Committee.
                  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 31-40, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM); Order
                  Re Privilege of 599 Documents Dated November 3, 2020 - January 20, 2021 at 23-24,
                  Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal. June 7, 2022), ECF No. 356; Order Re Privilege of Remaining
                  Documents at 13-17, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal. Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 372.
               20.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000091086 (United States Secret Service Protective Intelligence Division communication
                  noting left-wing groups telling members to stay at home on January 6th). 
               21.  Committee on House Administration, Oversight of the United States Capitol Police and Preparations for and Response to
                     the Attack of January 6th: Part I, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (Apr. 21, 2021), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/oversight-united-states-capitol-police-and-preparations-and-response; Committee on House Administration, Oversight of the United States Capitol Police and Preparations for and Response to
                     the Attack of January 6th: Part II, 117th Cong., 1st sess.,, (May 10, 2021), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/oversight-january-6th-attack-united-states-capitol-police-threat; Committee on House Administration, Oversight of the January 6th Attack: Review of the Architect of the Capitols Emergency
                     Preparedness, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (May 12, 2021), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/oversight-january-6th-attack-review-architect-capitol-s-emergency; Committee on House Administration, Reforming the Capitol Police and Improving Accountability for the Capitol Police Board, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (May 19, 2021), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/reforming-capitol-police-and-improving-accountability-capitol-police; Committee on House Administration, Oversight of the January 6th Attack: United States Capitol Police Containment Emergency
                     Response Team and First Responders Unit, 117th Cong., 1st sess., (June 15, 2021), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/oversight-january-6th-attack-united-states-capitol-police-containment; Committee on House Administration, Oversight of the January 6th Capitol Attack: Ongoing Review of the United States Capitol
                     Police Inspector General Flash Reports, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Feb. 17, 2022), available at https://cha.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/oversight-january-6th-capitol-attack-ongoing-review-united-states.
               22.  John Koblin, At Least 20 Million Watched Jan. 6 Hearing, New York Times, (June 10, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/10/business/media/jan-6-hearing-ratings.html. Their findings were also widely noted by major media outlets, including conservative
                  ones. Editorial: What the Jan. 6 Hearings Accomplished, Wall Street Journal, (Oct. 14, 2022), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-the-jan-6-inquiry-accomplished-donald-trump-liz-cheney-subpoena-congress-11665699321; Editorial: The Jan. 6 Hearings are Over. Time to Vote., Washington Post, (Oct. 13, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2022/10/13/jan-6-hearings-are-over-time-vote/; Editorial: The President Who Stood Still on Jan. 6, Wall Street Journal, (July 22, 2022), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-president-who-stood-still-donald-trump-jan-6-committee-mike-pence-capitol-riot-11658528548; Editorial: We All have a Duty to Ensure that What Happened on Jan. 6 Never Happens
                  Again, New York Times, (June 10, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/10/opinion/january-6-hearing-trump.html; Editorial: Trumps Silence on Jan. 6 is Damning, New York Post, (July 22, 2022), available at https://nypost.com/2022/07/22/trumps-jan-6-silence-renders-him-unworthy-for-2024-reelection/ 
               23.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 45 (And I told him
                  it was going to be a process. It was going to be, you knowyou know, were going to
                  have to wait and see how this turned out.  So I, just like I did in 2016, I did the
                  same thing in 2020.).
               24.  When States Can Begin Processing and Counting Absentee/Mail-In Ballots, 2020, Ballotpedia (accessed on Dec. 5, 2022), available at https://ballotpedia.org/When_states_can_begin_processing_and_counting_absentee/mail-in_ballots,_2020.
               25.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               26.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 45; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               27.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               28.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 36.
               29.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), p. 21.
               30.  John J. Martin, Mail-in Ballots and Constraints on Federal Power under the Electors Clause, 107 Va. L. Rev. Online 84, 86 (Apr. 2021) (noting that 45 States and DC permitted
                  voters to request a mail-in ballot or automatically receive one in the 2020 election);
                  Nathanial Rakich and Jasmine Mithani, What Absentee Voting Looked Like In All 50 States, FiveThirtyEight, (Feb. 9, 2021),
                  available at https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/what-absentee-voting-looked-like-in-all-50-states/; Lisa Danetz, Mail Ballot Security Features: A Primer, Brennan Center for Justice, (Oct. 16,
                  2020), available at https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/mail-ballot-security-features-primer.
               31.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Hope Hicks, (Oct. 25, 2022), p. 24.
               32.  He also won in Utah, which mailed absentee ballots to all active voters, and won
                  one or more electoral votes in both Maine and Nebraska, which allowed no-excuse absentee
                  voting and assign their electoral votes proportionally. See Table 1: States with No-Excuse Absentee Voting, National Conference of State Legislatures,
                  (July 12, 2022), available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201004185006/https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/vopp-table-1-states-with-no-excuse-absentee-voting.aspx (archived); Voting Outside the Polling Place: Absentee, All-Mail and Other Voting
                  at Home Options, National Conference of State Legislatures, (Sep. 24, 2020), available
                  at http://web.archive.org/web/20201103175057/https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx (archived); Federal Election Commission, Federal Elections 2020  Election Results
                  for the U.S. President, the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives, (Oct.
                  2022), p. 12, available at https://www.fec.gov/resources/cms-content/documents/federalelections2020.pdf.
               33.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb.10, 2022), p. 66; Select Committee
                     to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                     Jason Miller, (Feb.3, 2022), pp. 75-76.
               34.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 54, 66.
               35.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 74-77.
               36.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 60-61.
               37.  Donald Trump 2020 Election Night Speech Transcript, Rev, (Nov. 4, 2020), available
                  at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript. 
               38.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 5, 2020 9:12 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201105170250/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1324353932022480896 (archived).  Note: Citations in this report that refer to an archived tweet may list a timestamp that
                  is several hours earlier or later than the one shown on the suggested webpage because
                  tweets are archived from various time zones.
               39.  See, e.g., 52 U.S.C.  10307; Ariz. Rev. Stat.  16-1010.
               40.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 77-78.
               41.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 8.
               42.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000010020_0001
                  (November 3, 2020, email exchange between Tom Fitton and Molly Michael copying proposed
                  election day victory statement).
               43.  Dan Friedman, Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely
                  Claim Victory, Mother Jones, (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory. We note that Mr. Bannon refused to testify and has been convicted of criminal contempt
                  by a jury of his peers. Stephen K. Bannon Sentenced to Four Months in Prison on Two
                  counts of Contempt of Congress, Department of Justice, (Oct. 21, 2022), available
                  at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/stephen-k-bannon-sentenced-four-months-prison-two-counts-contempt-congress. 
               44.  At his interview, Stone invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate himself
                  in response to over 70 questions, including questions regarding his direct communications
                  with Donald Trump and his role in January 6th. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Deposition of Roger Stone (Dec. 17, 2021). See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Christoffer Guldbrandsen Production), Video file 201101_1
                  (November 1, 2020, footage of Roger Stone speaking to associates). 
               45.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 12-13.
               46.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 79VP-R000011578_0001,
                  079VP-R000011579_0001, 079VP-R000011579_0002 (November 3, 2020, email and memorandum
                  from Gregory Jacob to Marc Short regarding electoral vote count).
               47.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 117-18.
               48.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 91.
               49.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               50.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 121; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Alyssa Farah Griffin, (Apr. 15, 2022), p. 62; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson,
                  (Sep. 14, 2022), p. 113; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Kellyanne Conway, (Nov. 28, 2022),
                  pp. 79-84.
               51.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), pp. 212-21; Select Committee to
                  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of General Mark A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 108-10; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar.
                  28, 2022), pp. 44, 46, 48-51; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Douglas Macgregor, (June 7,
                  2022), pp. 27-41.
               52.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 215.
               53.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 6.
               54.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Alex Cannon, (Apr. 13, 2022), pp. 22, 33-34.
               55.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 111-12.
               56.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 119. 
               57.  ABC News, Pence Opens Up with David Muir on Jan. 6: Exclusive, YouTube, at 2:13,
                  Nov. 14, 2022, available at https://youtu.be/-AAyKAoPFQs?t=133. 
               58.  CNN Townhall: Former Vice President Mike Pence, CNN, (Nov. 16, 2022), available
                  at https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/se/date/2022-11-16/segment/01. 
               59.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 118.
               60.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 18.
               61.  Michael Balsamo, Disputing Trump, Barr Says No Widespread Election Fraud, Associated Press, (Dec. 1, 2020, updated June 28, 2022), available at https://apnews.com/article/barr-no-widespread-election-fraud-b1f1488796c9a98c4b1a9061a6c7f49d.
               62.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 24-30; Bill Barr Press
                  Conference Transcript: No Special Counsels Needed to Investigate Election or Hunter
                  Biden, Rev, (Dec. 21, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/bill-barr-press-conference-transcript-no-special-counsels-needed-to-investigate-election-or-hunter-biden.
               63.  Joint Statement from Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council &amp;
                  the Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive Committees, Cybersecurity
                  and Infrastructure Security Agency, (Nov. 12, 2020), available at https://www.cisa.gov/news/2020/11/12/joint-statement-elections-infrastructure-government-coordinating-council-election (emphasis in original). 
               64.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               65.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 21, 2021), pp. 59-60.
               66.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 21, 2021), pp. 108-09.
               67.  Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Richard Donoghue, (Aug.
                  6, 2021), p. 156, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Donoghue%20Transcript.pdf.
               68.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 18-19.
               69.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 50,
                  123; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 168-69, 184, 187.
               70.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 50.
               71.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (April 6, 2022), p. 128.
               72.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), pp. 172-73.
               73.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 174.
               74.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 63-70; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), pp. 57-62; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Timothy
                  Murtaugh, (May 19, 2022), pp, 66-68; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Alex Cannon, (Apr. 19,
                  2022), pp. 37-38; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Tim Murtaugh production), XXM-0021349 (text
                  chain with Giuliani, Ellis, Epshteyn, Ryan, Bobb, and Herschmann).
               75.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 58.
               76.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 58.
               77.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 58.
               78.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Stepien, (Feb. 10, 2022), p. 173.
               79.  King v. Whitmer, 505 F. Supp. 3d 720, 738 (E.D. Mich. 2020), also available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/King-v-Whitmer-Doc62.pdf; Bowyer v. Ducey, 506 F. Supp. 3d 699, 706 (D. Ariz. 2020), also available at https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.azd.1255923/gov.uscourts.azd.1255923.84.0_2.pdf; Donald J. Trump for President v. Boockvar, 502 F. Supp. 3d 899, 906 (M.D. Pa. 2020), also available at https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.pamd.127057/gov.uscourts.pamd.127057.202.0_1.pdf; Law v. Whitmer, No. 10 OC 00163 1B, 2020 Nev. Unpub. LEXIS 1160, at *1, 29-31, 33, 48-49, 52, 54 (Nev. Dec. 8, 2020), available at https://casetext.com/case/law-v-whitmer-1 (attaching and affirming lower court decision), also available at https://election.conservative.org/files/2020/12/20-OC-00163-Order-Granting-Motion-to-Dismiss-Statement-of-Contest.pdf;  Wisconsin Voters Alliance v. Pence, 514 F. Supp. 3d 117, 119 (D.D.C. 2021), also available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/WVA-v-Pence-Doc10.pdf. 
               80.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Zach Parkinson Production), Parkinson0620 (text message
                  between Tim Murtaugh, Zach Parkinson, and Matt).
               81.  In the Matter of Rudolph W. Giuliani, No. 2021-00506, slip op at *2, 22 (N.Y. App. Div. May 3, 2021), available at https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/giuliani-law-license-suspension/1ae5ad6007c0ebfa/full.pdf. 
               82.  In the Matter of Rudolph W. Giuliani, No. 2021-00506, slip op at *2, 22 (N.Y. App. Div. May 3, 2021), available at https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/giuliani-law-license-suspension/1ae5ad6007c0ebfa/full.pdf. 
               83.  Opinion and Order at 1, King v. Whitmer, 505 F. Supp. 3d 720 (E.D. Mich. Aug. 25, 2020) (No. 20-13134), ECF No. 172.
               84.  Senator John Danforth, Benjamin Ginsberg, The Honorable Thomas B. Griffith, et al.,
                  Lost, Not Stolen: The Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential
                     Election, (July 2022), p. 3, available at https://lostnotstolen.org/download/378/.  
               85.  Senator John Danforth, Benjamin Ginsberg, The Honorable Thomas B. Griffith, et al.,
                  Lost, Not Stolen: The Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential
                     Election, (July 2022), pp. 3-4, available at https://lostnotstolen.org/download/378/. We also note this: The authors of Lost, Not Stolen also conclude that one of the pieces of supposed evidence that President Trump and
                  his allies have pointed to since January 6, 2021, to try to bolster their allegations
                  that the 2020 election was stolen shows nothing of the sort.  Lost, Not Stolen explains that Dinesh DSouzas 2000 Mules tries to establish widespread voter fraud
                  in the 2020 election using phone-tracking data.  Yet the film, heartily endorsed
                  by Trump at its Mar-a-Lago premiere, has subsequently been thoroughly debunked in
                  analysis. What the film claims to portray is simply not supported by the evidence
                  invoked by the film. Id., at 6.  Likewise, former Attorney General Barr told the Select Committee: . . . I havent seen anything since the election that changes my mind [that fraud determined the outcome] including, the 2000 Mules movie.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June
                  2, 2022), p. 37.  He called its cell phone tracking data singularly unimpressive
                  because . . . in a big city like Atlanta or wherever, just by definition youre going to find many
                  hundreds of them have passed by and spent time in the vicinity of these boxes for
                  submitting ballots, and to argue that those people must be mules delivering fraudulent
                  ballots was just indefensible.  Id., at 37-38.
               86.  White House Senior Advisor Eric Herschmann told the Committee that when he disputed
                  allegations of election fraud in a December 18th Oval Office meeting, Sidney Powell
                  fired back that the judges are corrupt.  And I was like, every one?  Every single
                  case that youve done in the country you guys lost every one of them is corrupt, even
                  the ones we appointed?  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022),
                  p. 171.
               87.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), at 1:53:10-1:53:20, available at https://january6th.house.gov/legislation/hearings/06132022-select-committee-hearing.  
               88.  Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief at 46-47, Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. v. Boockvar, No. 4:20-cv-02078 (M.D. Pa. Nov. 9, 2020), available at https://cdn.donaldjtrump.com/public-files/press_assets/2020-11-09-complaint-as-filed.pdf. 
               89.  Opinion at 2, 3, 16, Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. v. Boockvar, No. 20-3371 (3d Cir. Nov. 27, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Donald-J.-Trump-for-President-v-Boockvar-3rd-Cir-Doc91.pdf.
               90.  Complaint for Expedited Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Pursuant to Article II
                  of the United States Constitution, Trump v. Wisconsin Elections Commission, No. 2:20-cv-01785 (E.D. Wis. Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Trump-v-WEC-Doc1.pdf.
               91.  Trump v. Wisconsin Elections Commission, 506 F. Supp. 3d 620, 21, 22 (E.D. Wis. 2020), available at https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Trump-v-WEC-Doc134.pdf. 
               92.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), at 1:52:45 to 1:53:20, available at https://january6th.house.gov/legislation/hearings/06132022-select-committee-hearing.  
               93.  The authors determined that thirty cases were dismissed by a judge after an evidentiary
                  hearing had been held, compared to twenty cases that were dismissed by a judge beforehand,
                  while the remaining fourteen were withdrawn voluntarily by plaintiffs. See Senator John Danforth, Benjamin Ginsberg, The Honorable Thomas B. Griffith, et al,
                  Lost, Not Stolen: The Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential
                     Election, (July 2022), p. 3, available at https://lostnotstolen.org/download/378/. 
               94.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), p. 111.
               95.  Letter from Timothy C. Parlatore to Chairman Bennie G. Thompson on Re: Subpoena
                  to Bernard B. Kerik, (Dec. 31, 2021).
               96.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000004125_0001
                  (December 28, 2020, email from Kerik to Meadows). 
               97.  When our courts weigh evidence to determine facts, they often infer that disputed
                  facts do not favor a witness who refuses to testify by invoking his Fifth Amendment
                  right against incriminating himself.  See Baxter v. Palmigiano, 425 U.S. 308, 318 (1976) (the Fifth Amendment allows for adverse inferences against
                  parties to civil actions when they refuse to testify to probative evidence offered
                  against them).
               98.  Nor was there such evidence of widespread fraud in any of the documents produced
                  in response to Select Committee subpoenas issued to the proponents of the claims,
                  including Rudy Giuliani and his team members and investigators Bernard Kerik and Christina
                  Bobb, or other proponents of election fraud claims such as Pennsylvania Senator Doug
                  Mastriano, Arizona legislator Mark Finchem, disbarred attorney Phill Kline, and attorneys
                  Sidney Powell, Cleta Mitchell, and John Eastman.  Not one of them provided evidence
                  raising genuine questions about the election outcome.  In short, it was a big scam.
               99.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 19, 2022), at 56:30 to 58:10, available at https://january6th.house.gov/legislation/hearings/101322-select-committee-hearing.
               100.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eugene Scalia (June 30, 2022), pp. 11-13. Then-Secretary
                  Scalia also sent a memorandum to President Trump on January 8, 2021.  In that memorandum,
                  he requested that the President convene an immediate meeting of the Cabinet.  He
                  told the President that he was concerned by certain statements you made since the
                  election . . . of further actions you may be considering, and he concluded that
                  [his] responsibilities as a Cabinet Secretary obligate[d] [him] to take further steps
                  to address those concerns.  The Select Committee will make this memorandum available
                  to the public.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Department of Labor Production), CTRL0000087637,
                  (January 8, 2021, Memorandum for The President of the United States from Secretary
                  of Labor Eugene Scalia, regarding Request for Cabinet Meeting).
               101.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 23-25.
               102.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone (July 8, 2022), p. 12.
               103.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 3, 2022), p. 62. 
               104.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 3, 2022), pp. 19-20.
               105.  Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Aug.
                  7, 2021), pp. 30-31, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript.pdf; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 14-15 (in which Rosen
                  confirms the general accuracy of the transcription of his Senate testimony and then
                  is asked and agrees to the following question: [Committee staff]: And we are going
                  tothe select committee is going to essentially incorporate those transcripts as part
                  of our record and rely upon your testimony there for our purposes going forward, as
                  long as youre comfortable with that? [Rosen]: Yes.) 
               106.  Donald Trump Vlog: Contesting Election Results  December 22, 2020, Factba.se,
                  at 9:11-9:25 (Dec. 22, 2020), available at https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-vlog-contesting-election-results-december-22-2020.
               107.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 43.
               108.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               109.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               110.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 8:57 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103135742/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1345731043861659650 (archived).
               111.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), pp. 25-26.
               112.  Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, at 15:12-15:44,
                  (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2. 
               113.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 64.
               114.  PBS NewsHour, WATCH LIVE: Trump Speaks as Congress Prepares to Count Electoral College
                  Votes in Biden Win, YouTube, at 1:42:58-1:43:02, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://youtu.be/pa9sT4efsqY?t=6178.
               115.  Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Interview of Richard Donoghue, (Aug. 6, 2021),
                  p. 156, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Donoghue%20Transcript.pdf.
               116.  PBS NewsHour, WATCH LIVE: Trump Speaks as Congress Prepares to Count Electoral College
                  Votes in Biden Win, YouTube, at 1:15:19-1:15:39, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://youtu.be/pa9sT4efsqY?t=4519.
               117.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html 
               118.  Donald Trump Rally Speech Transcript Dalton, Georgia: Senate Runoff Election, Rev,
                  at 51:38-52:01, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-rally-speech-transcript-dalton-georgia-senate-runoff-election.
               119.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               120.  PBS NewsHour, WATCH LIVE: Trump Speaks as Congress Prepares to Count Electoral College
                  Votes in Biden Win, YouTube, at 1:32:25-1:32:43, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://youtu.be/pa9sT4efsqY?t=5545.
               121.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               122.  PBS NewsHour, WATCH LIVE: Trump Speaks as Congress Prepares to Count Electoral College
                  Votes in Biden Win, YouTube, at 1:33:35-1:33:44, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://youtu.be/pa9sT4efsqY?t=5615. 
               123.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 143, 290-91.
               124.  Search results for dominion, Trump Twitter Archive v2, (accessed Sep. 20, 2022),
                  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22dominion%22&amp;results=1.
               125.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 117, 133.
               126.  Donald Trump Thanksgiving Call to Troops Transcript 2020: Addresses Possibility
                  of Conceding Election, Rev, at 23:35-23:46, (Nov. 26, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-thanksgiving-call-to-troops-transcript-2020-addresses-possibility-of-conceding-election. 
               127.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), p. 19.
               128.  Donald Trump Thanksgiving Call to Troops Transcript 2020: Addresses Possibility
                  of Conceding Election, Rev, at 24:16-24:35 (Nov. 26, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-thanksgiving-call-to-troops-transcript-2020-addresses-possibility-of-conceding-election. 
               129.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (Jun. 2, 2022), p. 27.
               130.  Donald Trump Speech on Election Fraud Claims Transcript December 2, Rev, at 10:46-11:06,
                  (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-on-election-fraud-claims-transcript-december-2. 
               131.  William P. Barr, One Damn Thing After Another: Memoirs of an Attorney General, (New York: HarperCollins, 2022), at p. 554.
               132.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Nov. 15, 2020 12:21 a.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1338715842931023873.jpg (archived).
               133.  Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Aug.
                  7, 2021), pp. 25, 31, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript.pdf. 
               134.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 16, 2020 1:09 a.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1339090279429775363.jpg (archived).
               135.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert OBrien, (Aug. 23, 2022), pp. 164-65.
               136.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 11:30 a.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1340333619299147781.jpg (archived).
               137.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 109.
               138.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy
                  Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               139.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call
                  transcript); Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.
               140.  PBS NewsHour, WATCH LIVE: Trump Speaks as Congress Prepares to Count Electoral College Votes in
                  Biden Win, YouTube, at 1:39:09 to 1:39:27 and 1:40:51 to 1:41:01, Jan. 6, 2021, available at
                  https://youtu.be/pa9sT4efsqY?t=5949. 
               141.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               142.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Barr, (June 2, 2022), p. 15.
               143.  The framers specifically considered and rejected two constitutional plans that would
                  have given Congress the power to select the Executive.  Under both the Virginia and
                  New Jersey Plans, the national executive would have been chosen by the national legislature.
                  See Curtis A. Bradley &amp; Martin S. Flaherty, Executive Power Essentialism and Foreign Affairs, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 545, 592, 595 (2004); see also 1 The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, at 21, 244 (Max Farrand ed., 1911) (introducing Virginia and New Jersey Plans), available at https://oll.libertyfund.org/title/farrand-the-records-of-the-federal-convention-of-1787-vol-1; James Madison, Notes of the Constitutional Convention (Sep. 4, 1787) (Gov. Morris warning of the danger of intrigue &amp; faction if Congress
                  selected the President), available at https://www.consource.org/document/james-madisons-notes-of-the-constitutional-convention-1787-9-4/.
               144.  The Federalist No. 68, at 458 (Alexander Hamilton) (Jacob E. Cooke ed., 1961).
               145.  The Federalist No. 68, at 459 (Alexander Hamilton) (Jacob E. Cooke ed., 1961).
               146.  The Federalist No. 68, at 459 (Alexander Hamilton) (Jacob E. Cooke ed., 1961).
               147.  The Federalist No. 68, at 459 (Alexander Hamilton) (Jacob E. Cooke ed., 1961). See also U.S. Const. art. II,  1, cl. 2 (but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding
                  an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector).
               148.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman052976 (Eastman
                  Jan 6 scenario dual slates of electors memo); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University
                  Production), CTRL0000923171 (Eastman Jan. 6 scenario conduct by elected officials
                  memo). 
               149.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003228 (Eastman
                  memo to President Trump).
               150.  See Eastman v. Thompson et al. at 6-8, 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               151.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman003228 (Eastman
                  memo to President Trump).
               152.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 118.
               153.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 110, 117.
               154.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 109-10; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               155.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               156.  Former Vice President Pence Remarks at Federalist Society Conference, C-SPAN (Feb.
                  4, 2022), available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?517647-2/vice-president-pence-remarks-federalist-society-conference. 
               157.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 122.
               158.  Document on file with the Select Committee (National Archives Production), VP-R0000107
                  (January 5, 2021, Greg Jacob memo to Vice President); see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 127-28 (discussing memorandum).
               159.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 122-23.
               160.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), pp. 26-27.
               161.  Judge Luttig (@judgeluttig), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 9:53 a.m. ET available at https://twitter.com/judgeluttig/status/1346469787329646592. 
               162.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               163.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               164.  Documents on file with the Select Committee, (Chapman University Production), Chapman005442
                  (Eastman emails with Greg Jacob).
               165.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 88.
               166.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 85.
               167.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 85-86.
               168.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 157.
               169.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 86-87.
               170.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 34.
               171.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 26.
               172.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 85.
               173.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 40.
               174.  Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni, Pence Said to Have Told Trump He Lacks Power to Change Election Result, New York Times, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/05/us/politics/pence-trump-election-results.html.
               175.  Meredith Lee (@meredithllee), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 9:58 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/meredithllee/status/1346652403605647367; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), p. 174-76; Greg Jacob testified that the
                  Presidents statement was categorically untrue. Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Marc Short testified that the statement was incorrect and false. Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Marc Short, (Jan. 26, 2022), p. 224; Chris Hodgson testified that it was not an accurate
                  statement. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Deposition of Chris Hodgson, (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 184-85.
               176.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 175-77 (acknowledging that Miller
                  normally would have called the Vice Presidents office before issuing a public statement
                  describing the Vice Presidents views but stating I dont think that ultimatelydont know if it ultimately would have changed anything as the President was very
                  adamant that this is where they both were and acknowledging that the way this [statement]
                  came out was the way that [Trump] wanted [it] to.).
               177.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 1:00 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210106072109/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346698217304584192 (archived).
               178.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 8:17 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210106175200/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346808075626426371 (archived).
               179.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 47; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of
                  Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 126.
               180.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of General Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 90; See also, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donald John Trump Jr., (May 3, 2022), p. 84; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 49; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of White House Employee,
                  (June 10, 2022), pp. 21-22. The Select Committee is not revealing the identity of
                  this witness to guard against the risk of retaliation.
               181.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), p. 127.
               182.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee (June 10, 2022), p. 20. The Select Committee
                  is not revealing the identity of this witness to guard against the risk of retaliation.
               183.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of General Keith Kellogg, Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), p. 92.
               184.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), p. 19.  See also Peter Baker, Maggie Haberman, and Annie Karni, Pence Reached His Limit with Trump. It Wasnt Pretty, New York Times, (Jan. 12, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/12/us/politics/mike-pence-trump.html; Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), at pp. 273-74.
               185.  At 11:33 a.m., Stephen Millers assistant, Robert Gabriel, emailed the speechwriting
                  team with the line: REINSERT THE MIKE PENCE LINES.  Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National
                  Archives Production), 076P-R000007531_0001 (January 6, 2021, Robert Gabriel email
                  to Trump speechwriting team at 11:33 a.m.).
               186.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Stephen Miller (Apr. 14, 2022), p. 153.
               187.  Document on file with the Select Committee (Ross Worthington Production), RW_0002341-2351
                  (S. Miller Jan. 6 Speech Edits Native File), pp. 2-3.
               188.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Ross Worthington Production), CTRL0000924249, (changes
                  in speech between draft and as delivered), pp. 2, 5, 12, 16, 22.
               189.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               190.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               191.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               192.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:11-0:14:29, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851. 
               193.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:07:02-2:07:07, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7609.
               194.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:07:02-2:07:07, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7609. 
               195.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:00:46-1:01:12, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=3645.  
               196.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:01:13-1:01:26, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=3645.  
               197.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:37-0:14:46, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851.
               198.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:47-0:14:55, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851.
               199.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), pp. 26-27 (establishing
                  time as 1:21 p.m. based on time stamp of a photograph recognized and described).
               200.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20210106192450/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346900434540240897 (archived).
               201.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 32-33,United States v. Cusanelli, No. 1:21-cr-37 (D.D.C. Sept. 15, 2022), ECF No. 110.
               202.  See Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 5, United States v. Black, No. 1:21-cr-127 (D.D.C. Jan. 13, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1354806/download.
               203.  Indictment at 9, United States v. Neefe, No. 1:21-cr-567 (D.D.C. Sept. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/case-multi-defendant/file/1432686/download. 
               204.  Affidavit in Support of Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant at 8, United States v. Evans, No. 1:21-cr-337 (D.D.C. Jan. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1-1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/press-release/file/1351946/download. 
               205.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), at 2:26:06-2:26:26, available at https://youtu.be/IQvuBoLBuC0?t=8766;  Sentencing Transcript at 19, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sept. 27, 2022), ECF No. 170 (testifying for a victim impact statement, Officer
                  Michael Fanone said: At approximately 1435 hours, with rapidly mounting injuries and most of the MPD less
                  than lethal munitions expended, the defending officers were forced to conduct a fighting
                  withdrawal back towards the United States Capitol Building entrance. This is the first
                  fighting withdrawal in the history of the Metropolitan Police Department).
               206.  See Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally Before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               207.  United States Secret Service Radio Tango Frequency at 14:16. 
               208.  United States Secret Service Radio Tango Frequency at 14:25; see also Spencer S. Hsu, Pence Spent Jan. 6 at Underground Senate Loading Dock, Secret Service
                  Confirms, Washington Post, (Mar. 21, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/03/21/couy-griffin-cowboys-trump-jan6/. 
               209.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:11:22-2:13:55, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7882.
               210.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 43-44.
               211.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 44.
               212.  Complaint, Exhibit 2 (Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol subpoena to Chapman University, dated Jan. 21, 2022), Eastman v. Thompson et al. et al., No. 8:22-cv-99, (C.D. Cal. Jan. 20, 2022) ECF No. 1-2.
               213.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 51-52, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               214.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 56-57, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               215.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 63-64, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               216.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               217.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 223.   
               218.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel, (June 1, 2022), pp. 7-8.
               219.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Ronna Romney McDaniel, (June 1, 2022), pp. 9-11.
               220. On December 13th, Chesebro memorialized the strategy in an email he sent Rudy Giuliani
                  with the subject line: PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL  Brief notes on President of
                  the Senate strategy. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman004708 (Dec. 13, 2020, Kenneth Chesebro email to Rudy Giuliani).
                  Chesebro argued that the Trump team could use the fake slates of electors to complicate
                  the joint session on January 6th if the President of the Senate firmly t[ook] the
                  position that he, and he alone, is charged with the constitutional responsibility
                  not just to open the votes, but to count themincluding making judgments about what
                  to do if there are conflicting votes. Id. In the weeks that followed, Chesebro and John Eastman would build upon that framework
                  and write two memos asserting that Joe Bidens certification could be derailed on
                  January 6th if Vice President Pence acted as the ultimate arbiter when opening the
                  real and fake Electoral College votes during the joint session of Congress. Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman053476 (December 23, 2020,
                  Eastman memo titled PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL  Dec 23 memo on Jan 6 scenario.docx);
                  see also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman061863 (January
                  1, 2021, Chesebro email to Eastman).
               221.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 114, 116.
               222.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Justin Clark, (May 17, 2022), pp. 116.
               223.  The certificate of ascertainment is a State executives official documentation
                  announcing the official electors appointed pursuant to State law.  See 3 U.S.C.  6.
               224.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Matthew Morgan, (Apr. 25, 2022), p. 70.
               225.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone (July 8, 2022), pp. 70-72.
               226.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Informal
                  Interview of Patrick Philbin (Apr. 13, 2022).
               227.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone (July 8, 2022), p. 75.
               228.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), p. 64.
               229.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Shawn Still, (Feb. 25, 2022), p. 24.
               230.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Andrew Hitt, (Feb. 28, 2022), pp. 5051.
               231.  The National Archives produced copies of the seven slates of electoral votes they
                  received from Trump electors in States that President Trump lost. See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037568, CTRL0000037944,
                  CTRL0000037945, CTRL0000037946, CTRL0000037947, CTRL0000037948, CTRL0000037949 (December
                  14, 2020, memoranda from slates of purported electors in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan,
                  New Mexico, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin); Documents on file with the Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National
                  Archives Production), VP-R0000323_0001 (Senate Parliamentarian office tracking receipt
                  and attaching copies of the seven slates); See also Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Robert Sinners Production), CTRL0000083893 (Trump campaign staffers emailing regarding submission); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Bill Stepien Production), WS 00096  WS 00097 (Trump campaign staffers
                  emailing regarding submission).
               232.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (David Shafer Production), 108751.0001 000004 (December
                  10, 2020, Kenneth Chesebro email to David Shafer).
               233.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037944 (December
                  14, 2020, certificate and mailing envelope from Georgia); Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), CTRL0000037941 (December 14, 2020, certificate and
                  mailing envelope from Arizona), Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production),
                  CTRL0000037945 (December 14, 2020, certificate and mailing envelope from Michigan).
               234.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Andrew Hitt Production), Hitt000080 (January 4, 2021,
                  Hitt text message with Mark Jefferson); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Angela McCallum
                  Production), McCallum_01_001576 -  McCallum_01_001577 (January 5, 2021, McCallum text
                  messages with G. Michael Brown); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production) CTRL0000056548_00007
                  (January 6, 2021, Hodgson text messages with Matt Stroia); Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Chris Hodgson Production), CTRL0000056548_00035 (January 6, 2021, text messages from
                  Senator Johnsons Chief of Staff, Sean Riley, to Chris Hodgson around 12:37 p.m.).
               235.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Chris Hodgson (Mar. 30, 2022), pp. 20607; Documents on file with the
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Chris Hodgson Production) CTRL0000056548_00007 (January 6, 2021, text message from
                  Rep. Kellys Chief of Staff, Matt Stroia, to Chris Hodgson at 8:41 a.m.), CTRL0000056548_00035 (January 6, 2021, text messages
                  from Senator Johnsons Chief of Staff, Sean Riley, to Chris Hodgson around 12:37 p.m.);
                  Jason Lennon, Johnson Says Involvement with 1/6 Fake Electors Plan Only Lasted Seconds, Newsweek, (Aug. 21, 2022), available at https://www.newsweek.com/johnson-says-involvement-1-6-fake-electors-plan-only-lasted-seconds-1735486.
               236.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), pp. 5254.
               237.  Order Re Privilege of 599 Documents Dated November 3, 2020 - January 20, 2021 at
                  6, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal June 7, 2022), ECF No. 356.
               238.  Order Re Privilege of 599 Documents Dated November 3, 2020 - January 20, 2021 at
                  20, Eastman v. Thompson et al.., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal June 7, 2022), ECF No. 356.
               239.  Brad Raffensperger, Integrity Counts (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2021), p. 191 (reproducing the call transcript); Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, Heres the Full Transcript and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-11eb-83e3-322644d82356_story.html.  
               240.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 5, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM), also available
                  at https://www.cacd.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Dkt%20260%2C%20Order%20RE%20Privilege%20of%20Jan.%204-7%2C%202021%20Documents_0.pdf.
               241.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 35, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM), also available
                  at https://www.cacd.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Dkt%20260%2C%20Order%20RE%20Privilege%20of%20Jan.%204-7%2C%202021%20Documents_0.pdf. 
               242.  After a journalist tweeted a video clip of key remarks from Gabriel Sterlings warning
                  addressed to President Trump, President Trump responded by quote-tweeting that post,
                  along with a comment that doubled down on demonizing Georgia election workers in spite
                  of Sterlings stark and detailed warning. See Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 10:27 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201203173245/https://mobile.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1333975991518187521 (archived) (Rigged Election. Show signatures and envelopes. Expose the massive voter
                  fraud in Georgia. What is Secretary of State and @BrianKempGA afraid of. They know what well find!!! [linking to] twitter.com/BrendanKeefe/status/1333884246277189633); Brendan Keefe (@BrendanKeefe), Twitter, Dec. 1, 2020 4:22 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/BrendanKeefe/status/1333884246277189633 (It. Has. All. Gone. Too. Far, says @GabrielSterling with Georgia Sec of State after a Dominion techs life was threatened with a noose. Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions or this language. . . .all of you who have not said a damn word are complicit in this. with embedded video
                  of Gabriel Sterlings remarks); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               243.  Stephen Fowler, Someones Going to Get Killed: Election Official Blasts GOP Silence
                  on Threats, GPB News, (Dec. 1, 2020, updated Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://www.gpb.org/news/2020/12/01/someones-going-get-killed-election-official-blasts-gop-silence-on-threats.
               244.  House Governmental Affairs Committee, Georgia House of Representatives, Public Hearing
                  (Dec. 10, 2020), YouTube, at 1:55:10-1:59:10, available at https://youtu.be/9EfgETUKfsI?t=6910. 
               245.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 2:25:45 to 2:26:00, available at https://youtu.be/xa43_z_82Og?t=8745.
               246.  Jason Szep and Linda So, A Reuters Special Report: Trump Campaign Demonized Two Georgia Election
                  Workers  and Death Threats Followed, Reuters (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-georgia/.
               247.  Amended Complaint at 52, Freeman v. Giuliani, No. 21-cv-03354-BAH (D.D.C. filed May 10, 2022), ECF No. 22, available at https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61642105/22/freeman-v-herring-networks-inc.  
               248.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ruby Freeman, (May 31, 2022), pp. 7-8.
               249.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, White House Phone Calls, Baseless Fraud Charges: The
                  Origins of the Arizona Election Review, Arizona Republic, (Nov. 17, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/17/arizona-audit-trump-allies-pushed-to-undermine-2020-election/6045151001/; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, Asked to do Something Huge: An Audacious Pitch to
                  Reserve Arizonas Election Results, Arizona Republic, (Nov. 18, 2021, updated Dec. 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/18/arizona-audit-rudy-giuliani-failed-effort-replace-electors/6349795001/.
               250.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 53:00-53:40, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og.
               251.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), at 41:30-46:35, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa43_z_82Og.
               252.  Dennis Welch (@dennis_welch), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 11:23 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dennis_welch/status/1336526978640302080 (retweeting people who were posting Bowerss personal information); Dennis Welch (@dennis_welch), Twitter, Dec. 8, 2020 11:28 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/dennis_welch/status/1336528029791604737.  
               253.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Russel Rusty Bowers, (June 19, 2022), pp. 50-52; Kelly Weill, Arizona GOP Civil War Somehow Keeps Getting Weirder, Daily Beast, (Dec. 11, 2020), available at https://www.thedailybeast.com/arizona-republican-party-civil-war-somehow-keeps-getting-weirder; Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Ronald J. Hansen, Asked to do Something Huge: An Audacious Pitch to
                  Reserve Arizonas Election Results, Arizona Republic, (Nov. 18, 2021, updated Dec. 2, 2021), available at https://www.azcentral.com/in-depth/news/politics/elections/2021/11/18/arizona-audit-rudy-giuliani-failed-effort-replace-electors/6349795001/.
               254.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               255.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), pp. 16-22.
               256.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Informal Interview of Lee Chatfield, (Oct. 15, 2021).
               257.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 57.
               258.  Legislative Leaders Meet with President Trump, State Senator Mike Shirkey, (Nov. 20, 2020), available at https://www.senatormikeshirkey.com/legislative-leaders-meet-with-president-trump/.
               259.  Team Trump (Text TRUMP to 88022) (@TeamTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 9:00 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103170109/https://twitter.com/TeamTrump/status/1345776940196659201 (archived); Beth LeBlanc, Trump Campaign Lists Lawmakers Cells, Misdirects Calls
                  for Chatfield to Former Petoskey Resident, Detroit News, (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/2021/01/04/trump-campaign-lists-michigan-lawmakers-cell-numbers-misdirects-private-citizen/4130279001/; Jaclyn Peiser, Trump Shared the Wrong Number for a Michigan Lawmaker: A 28-Year-Old Has Gotten
                  Thousands of Angry Calls, Washington Post, (Jan. 5, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/01/05/michigan-trump-wrong-number-chatfield/.
               260.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Michael Shirkey, (June 8, 2022), p. 52; Aaron Parseghian, Former Michigan Resident Slammed with
                  Calls After Trump Campaign Mistakenly Posts Number on Social Media, Fox 17 West Michigan,
                  (Jan. 4, 2021), available at https://www.fox17online.com/news/politics/former-michigan-resident-slammed-with-calls-after-trump-campaign-mistakenly-posts-number-on-social-media.
               261.  Nor would any State legislature have had such authority. 
               262.  Order Re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 16-17, Eastman v. Thompson et al.., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 372, available at https://www.cacd.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Dkt.%20372%2C%20Order%20Re%20Privilege%20of%20Remaining%20Documents.pdf.
               263.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman060742, (December
                  31, 2020, from John Eastman to Alex Kaufman and Kurt Hilbert).
               264.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman060742, (December
                  31, 2020, from John Eastman to Alex Kaufman and Kurt Hilbert).
               265.  Order Re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 17, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99 (C.D. Cal Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 372, available at https://www.cacd.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Dkt.%20372%2C%20Order%20Re%20Privilege%20of%20Remaining%20Documents.pdf.
               266.  Order Re Privilege of Remaining Documents at 17, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-099 (C.D. Cal Oct. 19, 2022), ECF No. 372, available at https://www.cacd.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Dkt.%20372%2C%20Order%20Re%20Privilege%20of%20Remaining%20Documents.pdf.
               267.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               268.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 53.
               269.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 47-48, 53; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               270.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               271.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               272.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               273.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               274.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 58; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738,
                  HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes
                  from Richard Donoghue about call with President Trump).
               275.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 59.
               276.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 59.
               277.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014099 (December 26, 2020,
                  message from Representative Perry to Meadows stating: Mark, just checking in as time
                  continues to count down.  11 days to 1/6 and 25 days to inauguration. We gotta get going!), MM014100 (December 26, 2020, message from Representative Perry to Meadows stating:
                  Mark, you should call Jeff. I just got off the phone with him and he explained to
                  me why the principal deputy wont work especially with the FBI. They will view it
                  as as [sic] not having the authority to enforce what needs to be done.), MM014101 (Dec.
                  26, 2020 Message from Meadows to Rep. Perry stating: I got it. I think I understand.
                  Let me work on the deputy position), MM014102 (Dec. 26, 2020 Message from Rep. Perry
                  to Meadows stating: Roger. Just sent you something on Signal), MM014162 (December
                  27, 2020, message from Rep. Perry to Meadows stating: Can you call me when you get
                  a chance? I just want to talk to you for a few moments before I return the presidents
                  [sic] call as requested.), MM014178 (December 28, 2020, message from Rep. Perry to
                  Meadows stating: Did you call Jeff Clark?), MM014208 (December 29, 2020, message
                  from Representative Perry to Meadows stating: Mark, I sent you a note on signal),
                  MM014586 (January 2, 2021, message from Representative Perry to Meadows stating: Please
                  call me the instant you get off the phone with Jeff.). President Trump, Mark Meadows,
                  and Representative Perry refused to testify before the Select Committee, and Jeffrey
                  Clark asserted his Fifth Amendment rights in refusing to answer questions from the
                  Select Committee. Thompson &amp; Cheney Statement on Donald Trumps Defiance of Select
                  Committee Subpoena, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, (Nov. 14, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/news/press-releases/thompson-cheney-statement-donald-trump-s-defiance-select-committee-subpoena; Luke Broadwater, Trump Sues to Block Subpoena from Jan. 6 Committee, New York Times, (Nov. 11, 2022), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/11/us/politics/trump-subpoena-jan-6-committee.html; H. Rept. 117-216, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena
                  Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st Sess. (2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt216/CRPT-117hrpt216.pdf; Letter from John P. Rowley III to the Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, re: Subpoena
                  to Representative Scott Perry, May 24, 2022, available at https://keystonenewsroom.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2022/05/575876667-Rep-perry-Ltr-SelectComm.pdf; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeffrey Clark, (Nov. 5, 2021); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Deposition of Jeffrey Clark, (Feb.
                  2, 2022). See also Jonathan Tamari and Chris Brennan, Pa. Congressman Scott Perry
                  Acknowledges Introducing Trump to Lawyer at the Center of Election Plot, Philadelphia Inquirer, (Jan. 25, 2021), available at https://www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/scott-perry-trump-georgia-election-results-20210125.html.
               278.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014099-014103, MM014178.
               279.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), pp. 54-55.
               280.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack at the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 55.
               281.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack at the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 56.
               282.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 114; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000681
                  (Department of Justice policy), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000685 (White
                  House policy).
               283.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack at the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 56.
               284.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 82.
               285.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 72-73; Documents
                     on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                     States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698,
                     (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes from Richard Donoghue about call with Congressman
                     Perry).
               286.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 15-17, 64-80, 179-191; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697,
                  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698 (email with draft letter attached to
                  December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue).
               287.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15, 2021), pp. 184-88; Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697,
                  HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698 (email with draft letter attached to
                  Dec. 28 email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue). As further
                  discussed in Chapter 4 of this report, Klukowski, a lawyer, joined DOJs Civil Division
                  with just weeks remaining in President Trumps term and helped Clark on issues related
                  to the 2020 election, despite the fact that election-related matters are not part
                  of the Civil portfolio. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski (Dec. 15, 2021), p. 66-67.
                  Although Klukowski told the Select Committee that the Trump Campaign was his client
                  before joining DOJ, id. at p. 190, and despite the fact that he had sent John Eastman draft talking points
                  titled TRUMP RE-ELECTION that encouraged Republican State legislatures to summon
                  new Electoral College electors for the 2020 election less than a week before starting
                  at DOJ, Klukowski nevertheless helped Clark draft the December 28th letter described
                  in this Report that, if sent, would have encouraged one or more State legislatures
                  to take actions that they believed could have changed the outcome of the 2020 election.
                  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman028219, Chapman028220
                  (December 9, 2020, email from Klukowski to Eastman with attached memo). The Select
                  Committee has concerns about whether Klukowskis actions at DOJ, and his continued
                  contacts with those working for, or to benefit, the Trump Campaign, may have presented
                  a conflict of interest to the detriment of DOJs mission. In addition, the Select
                  Committee has concerns about many of the privilege claims Klukowski used to withhold
                  information responsive to his subpoena, as well as concerns about some of his testimony,
                  including his testimony about contacts with, among others, John Eastman.  The Committee
                  has learned that their communications included at least four known calls between December
                  22, 2020, and January 2, 2021. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production, July 1, 2022)
                  (showing that Klukowski called Eastman on 12/22 at 7:38 a.m. EST for 22.8 min, that
                  Klukowski called Eastman on 12/22 at 7:09 p.m. EST for 6.4 min, that Eastman called
                  Klukowski on 12/30 at 9:11 p.m. EST for 31.9 min, and that Klukowski called Eastman
                  on 1/02 at 6:59 p.m. EST for 6.4 min).
               288.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Chapman University Production), Chapman061893 (Jan.
                  1, 2021, emails between Jeffrey Clark and John Eastman); seeDocuments on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Verizon Production, July 1, 2022) (showing five calls
                  between John Eastman and Jeffrey Clark from January 1, 2021, through January 8, 2021).
               289.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                  (Dec. 28 email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue titled Two
                  Urgent Action Items) (The concept is to send it to the Governor, Speaker, and President
                  pro temp of each relevant state. . .); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Kenneth Klukowski, (Dec. 15,
                  2021), pp. 68-69, 79.
               290.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                     (draft letter attached to December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen
                     and Richard Donoghue).
               291.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                  (draft letter attached to December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen
                  and Richard Donoghue).
               292.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000703.
               293.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                     (draft letter attached to December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen
                     and Richard Donoghue).
               294.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                     (draft letter attached to December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen
                     and Richard Donoghue).
               295.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697
                  (draft letter attached to December 28, 2020, email from Jeffrey Clark to Jeffrey Rosen
                  and Richard Donoghue).
               296.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (January 2, 2021, email from Jeffrey Rosen to Richard Donoghue titled RE: Two Urgent
                     Action Items).
               297.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (January 2, 2021, email from Jeffrey Rosen to Richard Donoghue titled RE: Two Urgent
                     Action Items).
               298.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                     on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200
                     (January 2, 2021, email from Jeffrey Rosen to Richard Donoghue titled RE: Two Urgent
                     Action Items).
               299.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. 
               300.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 82.
               301.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 82. 
               302.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 79-82; Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000703
                  (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen
                  re: Two Urgent Action Items in which Donoghue writes: there is no chance that I would
                  sign this letter or anything remotely like this.).
               303.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack at the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021), p. 73; Documents on file
                  with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000703
                  (December 28, 2020, email from Richard Donoghue to Jeffrey Clark, ccing Jeffrey Rosen
                  re: Two Urgent Action Items in which Donoghue writes: there is no chance that I would
                  sign this letter or anything remotely like this.); Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
                  Interview of Richard Donoghue, (August 6, 2021), at p. 99, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Donoghue%20Transcript.pdf.
               304.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 113.
               305.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               306.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               307.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), CTRL0000083040 (January
                  3, 2021, White House Presidential Call Log).
               308.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 119.
               309.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 119-20. (And
                  so it was unanimous; everyone was going to resign if Jeff Rosen was removed from the
                  seat. The only exception was John Demers, the Assistant Attorney General for the
                  National Security Division. Donoghue encouraged Demers to stay on because he didnt
                  want to further jeopardize national security.)
               310.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 124.
               311.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 126-28; Select
                     Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                     Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 120.
               312.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 126.
               313.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               314.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven A. Engel, (Jan. 13, 2022), p. 64.
               315.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 125.
               316.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 131-132.
               317.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 131-32.
               318.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Sidney Powell, (May 7, 2022), pp. 75, 84. 
               319.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 1:42 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201219064257/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1340185773220515840 (archived).
               320.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 26, 2020 8:14 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1342821189077622792; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 27, 2020 5:51 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1343328708963299338; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 30, 2020 2:06 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1344359312878149634; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 12:52 p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40KylieJaneKremer%22 (archived) (retweeting @KylieJaneKremer, Dec. 19, 2020 3:50 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/KylieJaneKremer/status/1340399063875895296)); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 2:53 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345095714687377418; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 3:34 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345106078141394944; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 6:38 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345152408591204352; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 2, 2021 9:04 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345551634907209730; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 1:29 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realDonaldTrump%3A+https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2FnslWcFwkCj%22 (archived) (retweeting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Jan. 2, 2021 9:04 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345551634907209730)); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:15 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40JenLawrence21%22 (archived) (retweeting Jennifer Lynn Lawrence (@JenLawrence21)), Jan. 3, 2021 12:17
                  a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/JenLawrence21/status/1345600194826686464); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:17 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40CodeMonkeyZ+if%22 (archived) (retweeting Ron Watkins (@CodeMonkeyZ) Jan. 2, 2021 9:14 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103151826/https://twitter.com/CodeMonkeyZ/status/1345599512560078849 (archived)); Donald J. Trump, (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:24 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realMikeLindell%22 (archived) (retweeting Mike Lindell (@realMikeLindell), Jan. 2, 2021 5:47 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103152421/https://twitter.com/realMikeLindell/status/1345547185836978176 (archived)); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345753534168506370;  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:28 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40AmyKremer+we%22 (archived) (retweeting Amy Kremer (@AmyKremer), Jan. 2, 2021 2:58 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/AmyKremer/status/1345459488107749386); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 4, 2021 9:46 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realDonaldTrump+I+will+be+there.+Historic+day%21%22 (retweeting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Jan. 3, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345753534168506370); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346478482105069568; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 5:43 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346588064026685443. 
               321.  See, e.g., Sentencing Memorandum of Daniel Johnson at 5, United States v. Johnson, No. 1:21-cr-407 (D.D.C. May 25, 2022), ECF No. 56 (Mr. Johnson believed what he
                  read on the internet and heard from the President himself that the election had been stolen.); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Zac Martin, (Mar.
                  9, 2022), p. 20 (answering that he believed President Trump wanted patriots to show
                  up in Washington, DC on January  6th because we felt like our rights were being
                  taken away from us given the election results).
               322.  See, e.g., Trial Transcript at 4106-08, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 18, 2022) (Oath Keeper Jason Dolan testified that the
                  Oath Keepers came to Washington, DC to stop the certification of the election. .
                  . . [b]y any means necessary. Thats why we brought our firearms.); Motion to Suppress,
                  Exhibit A at 34, 85-86, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 15, 2021), ECF No. 38-1 (Trump called us. Trump called
                  us to D.C. . . . and hes calling for helpI thought he was calling for help. I thought he wasI thought we were doing the right thing.);  Statement of Facts at 2, United States v. Martin, No. 1:21-cr-394 (D.D.C. Apr. 20, 2021) (MARTIN reported that he decided to travel
                  to Washington, DC after reading then-President Donald Trumps tweets regarding the
                  election being stolen and a protest on January 6, 2021, flying to DC on January 5,
                  2021, and attending the rallies on January 6, 2021, and then heading to the U.S. Capitol
                  where he entered along with a crowd of other individuals.); Statement of Facts at
                  9-10, United States v. Denney, No. 1:22-cr-70 (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021) (So Trump has called this himself. For everyone
                  to come. Its the day the electoral college is suppose [sic] to be certified by congress
                  to officially elect Biden.); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thth Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Dustin Thompson (Nov.
                  16, 2022), pp. 34, 44, 70-71 (noting that he went to the Capitol at President Trumps
                  direction and that he figured [stopping the certification of the vote] was [President
                  Trumps] plan; see also, Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Select Committee Chart Compiling Defendant Statements).
               323.  Indictment at 6, United States v. Smith, No. 1:21-cr-567 (D.D.C. Sept. 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               324.  Statement of Facts at 3, United States v. Sulenta, No. 1:22-mj-00129-ZMF (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 1-1.
               325.  Stipulated Statement of Facts at 7, United States v. Morss, No. 1:21-cr-40 (D.D.C. August 23, 2022), ECF No. 430.
               326.  Statement of Facts at 9, United States v. Grayson, No. 1:21-cr-224 (D.D.C. Jan. 25, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               327.  Statement of Facts at 11, United States v. Denney, No. 1:21-mj-00686-RMM-ZMF (D.D.C. Dec. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1-1.
               328.  Gieswein denies that he was a Three Percenter as of January 6, 2021, even though he affiliated
                  with an apparent Three Percenter group at previous times. See Giesweins Motion for Hearing &amp; Revocation of Detention Order at 2-3, 18-19, 25, United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ECF No. 18. When the FBI arrested Gieswein, the criminal complaint noted that he appears to be affiliated with the radical
                  militia group known as the Three Percenters. Criminal Complaint at 5, United States v. Gieswein, No. 1:21-cr-24 (D.D.C. Jan. 16, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/page/file/1360831/download. See also Adam Rawnsley (@arawnsley), Twitter, Jan. 17, 2021 9:13 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/arawnsley/status/1350989535954530315 (highlighting photos of Gieswein flashing a Three Percenter symbol).
               329.  Second Superseding Indictment at 9-10, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. March 7, 2022), ECF No. 305.
               330.  Statement of Offense at 5, United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5; Third Superseding Indictment at
                  6, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380; Statement of Offense at 3, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022), ECF No. 336.
               331.  Third Superseding Indictment at 13, United States v. Nordean, et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380; Georgia Wells, Rebecca Ballhaus, and Keach Hagey, Proud Boys, Seizing Trumps Call to Washington, Helped Lead Capitol Attack, Wall Street Journal, (Jan.17, 2021), available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/proud-boys-seizing-trumps-call-to-washington-helped-lead-capitol-attack-11610911596.
               332.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jay Thaxton Production), CTRL0000070865, (December 29,
                  2020, Telegram chat at 11:09 a.m. from Enrique Tarrio under the name HEIKA NOBLELEAD.).
                  
               333.  Former Leader of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Seditious Conspiracy for Efforts to
                  Stop Transfer of Power Following 2020 Presidential Election, Department of Justice,
                  (Oct. 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-leader-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-efforts-stop-transfer-power; Leader of North Carolina Chapter of Proud Boys Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy and
                  Assault Charges in Jan. 6 Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Apr. 8, 2022),
                  available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-north-carolina-chapter-proud-boys-pleads-guilty-conspiracy-and-assault-charges-jan-6. 
               334.  Statement of Offense at 2, United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5.
               335.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5.
               336.  Statement of Offense at 4-5, United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5.
               337.  Statement of Offense at 4, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022), ECF No. 336. Indeed, Proud Boys leaders Biggs
                  and Nordean told MOSD on January 5th about a plan they had discussed with Tarrio for
                  January 6th. Although Biggs and Nordean did not share the plans precise details,
                  Proud Boys like Bertino and Donohoe nonetheless understood the  objective in Washington,
                  D.C., on January 6, 2021, was to obstruct, impede, or interfere with the certification
                  of the Electoral College vote, including by force if necessary, and that the Proud
                  Boys would accomplish this through the use of force and violence, which could include
                  storming the Capitol through police lines and barricades if necessary. Statement
                  of Offense at 8, United States v. Bertino, No. 1:22-cr-329 (D.D.C. Oct. 6, 2022), ECF No. 5; Statement of Offense at 6, United States v. Donohoe, No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. Apr. 8, 2022), ECF No. 336.
               338.  Superseding Indictment at 2-3, United States v. Rhodes et al, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167. 
               339.  Caldwell testified that he was not an Oath Keeper. See Trial Transcript at 8778-79, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 15, 2022); Hannah Rabinowitz and Holmes Lybrand, Capitol
                  Riot Defendant Calls Himself a Little Bit of a Goof Regarding Pelosi and Pence Comments,
                  CNN, (Nov. 15, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/11/15/politics/thomas-caldwell-testifies-oath-keeper-trial. Because the government tried  Caldwell in a conspiracy case with known Oath Keepers,
                  the Select Committee has referred to him as an Oath Keeper.
               340.  See Trial Transcript at 10502-08, United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2022).
               341.  Trial Exhibit 6860 (1.S.656.9328 - 9396), United States v. Rhodes, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 13, 2022). 
               342.  Superseding Indictment at 13, United States v. Rhodes, III, et al., No. 22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No 167.
               343.  Superseding Indictment at 13-14, United States v. Rhodes, et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No. 167.
               344.  Superseding Indictment at 15-17, United States v. Rhodes, et al., No. 22-cr-15 (D.D.C. June 22, 2022), ECF No 167.
               345.  Statement of Offense at 5, United States v. Ulrich, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Apr. 29, 2022), ECF No. 117.
               346.  Statement of Offense at 5, United States v. James, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Mar. 2, 2022), ECF No. 60. 
               347.  TTPO Stance on Election Fraud, The Three Percenters - Original, available at https://archive.ph/YemCC#selection-289.0-289.29 (archived).
               348.  Statement of Facts at 7-8, United States v. Buxton, No. 1:21-cr-739 (D.D.C. Dec. 8, 2021), ECF No. 1-1; Post: Oath Keepers claim to
                  stand for the constitution yet will not call up its 30k membership to attend the 6th.
                  I thought you guys stood for the constitution? Its your only job as an organization. . .now or never boys, Patriots.win, Dec. 29, 2020, available at https://patriots.win/p/11RO2hdyR2/x/c/4DrwV8RcV1s.
               349.  Indictment at 1, 7, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               350.  Indictment at 7, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               351.  Indictment at 8-13, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               352.  Indictment at 9, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1.
               353.  Statement of Facts at 4, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1.
               354.  Statement of Facts at 5, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1. When the Select Committee
                  asked about this post to the leader of the Florida Guardians of Freedom, Liggett downplayed
                  any significance or any knowledge about other Three Percenter groups that might show
                  in record numbers. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Deposition of Jeremy Liggett, (May 17, 2022), pp. 51-52.
               355.  Statement of Facts at 5-6, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1; #SeditionHunters (@SeditionHunters), Twitter, June 7, 2021 2:11 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SeditionHunters/status/1401965056980627458. 
               356.  Statement of Facts at 15-17, United States v. Cole et al., No. 1:22-mj-184, (D.D.C. Aug. 29, 2022), ECF No. 5-1. The tunnel is actually a
                  flight of stairs leading to a doorway from which the President emerges on Inauguration
                  Day to take the oath of office. When the inauguration stage is present, the stairs
                  leading to the doorway are converted into a 10-foot-wide, slightly sloped, short
                  tunnel that was approximately 15 feet long. Governments Sentencing Memorandum at
                  5-6, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291-3 (D.D.C. Sept. 13, 2022), ECF No. 140. For other examples of how
                  extremist groups responded to President Trumps call to action, see Chapter 6. 
               357.  Indictment at 11, United States v. Rodriguez et al., No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Nov. 19, 2021), ECF No. 65; Motion to Suppress, Exhibit
                  A at 70, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 15, 2021), ECF No. 38-1.
               358.  Motion to Suppress, Exhibit A at 34, 85-86, United States v. Rodriguez, No. 1:21-cr-246 (D.D.C. Oct. 15, 2021), ECF No. 38-1. 
               359.  Governments Opposition to Defendants Renewed Request for Pretrial Release at 7,
                  United States v. Meggs, No. 1:21-cr-28 (D.D.C Mar. 23, 2021), ECF No. 98.
               360.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol ( Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Google Voice Production, Feb. 25, 2022).
               361.  Trial Exhibit 6868 (2000.T.420), United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 13, 2022). 
               362.  Trial Exhibit 6868 (2000.T.420), United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 13, 2022).
               363.  Trial Exhibit 9221, United States v. Rhodes et al., No.1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 2022).
               364.  Motion for Bond, Exhibit 1 at 125-26, United States v. Vallejo, No. 1:22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Apr. 18, 2022), ECF No. 102-1 (Collection of redacted text
                  messages, labeled as Exhibit 8, showing Rhodes adding a CA Oath Keeper who is in
                  with a four man team, followed by that person announcing his identifiable radio frequency)
                  Ryan J. Reilly, New Evidence Reveals Coordination Between Oath Keepers, Three Percenters
                  on Jan. 6, NBC News, (May 28, 2022), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/new-evidence-reveals-coordination-oath-keepers-three-percenters-jan-6-rcna30355 (noting how public source investigators linked the identifiable radio frequency to
                  Derek Kinnison, who is one of the California Three Percenters indicted on conspiracy
                  charges for their conduct on January 6th. See Indictment, United States v. Hostetter et al., No. 1:21-cr-392 (D.D.C. June 9, 2021), ECF No. 1).
               365.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), CTRL 0000010471,
                  at 7:01 (January 6, 2021, video footage recorded by Samuel Montoya at the U.S. Capitol).
               366.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (District of Columbia Production), Axon Body 3 X6039BKH5
                  13.53.47 20210106-FELONYRIOT-FIRSTSTSE, at 15:28:13 (MPD body camera footage); Statement
                  of Facts at 3, United States v. Cale, No. 1:22-cr-139 (D.D.C. Mar. 28, 2022), ECF No. 1-1. 
               367.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Jan6-07222021-000603.
               368.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), p. 143.
               369.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 199.
               370.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mary McCord Production), CTRL0000930476 (December 22,
                  2020, email to the FBI noting troubling Oath Keepers chats).
               371.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mary McCord Production), CTRL0000930476 (December 22,
                  2020, email to the FBI noting troubling Oath Keepers chats).
               372.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               373.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               374.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               375.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               376.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               377.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               378.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000038637, (December
                  25, 2020, email chain from PIOC on January 6th intelligence).
               379.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000080 (December
                  28, 2020, email to John Donohue re: (LES) Armed and Ready SITE.pdf.); Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Jack Donohue, (Jan. 31, 2022), p. 8; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Informal Interview of Jack Donohue, (Jan.
                  7, 2022).
               380.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000067420 (December
                  26, 2020, email to PIOC regarding possible Proud Boys plan for January 6, 2021).
               381.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000067420 (December
                  26, 2020, email to PIOC regarding possible Proud Boys plan for January 6, 2021).
               382.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001473 (December
                  29, 2020, email from PIOC-ONDUTY to THREAT ASSESSMENT re: FW: [EXTERNAL EMAIL] - Neo-Nazi
                  Calls on D.C. Pro-Trump Protesters to Occupy Federal Building.).
               383.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000087 (December
                  28, 2020, email re: 1/6 warning.).
               384.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001473 (December
                  29, 2020, email from [email&#160;protected] to [email&#160;protected] titled FW: [EXTERNAL
                  EMAIL] - Neo-Nazi Calls on D.C. Pro-Trump Protesters to Occupy Federal Building.).
               385.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000101135.0001, pp.
                  1, 3 (December 30, 2020, Protective Intelligence Brief titled Wild Protest).
               386.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001527 (Email titled
                  Fwd: MPD MMS Text Tip.).
               387.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001527 (Email titled
                  Fwd: MPD MMS Text Tip.).
               388.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Parler Production) PARLER_00000013 (January 2, 2021,
                  email from Parler to the FBI re: Another to check out, attaching Parler posts).
               389.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001487 (January
                  2, 2021, email to Capitol Police and Department of Justice with screenshots of Parler
                  posts); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000116, CTRL0000000116.0001
                  (January 4, 2021, email from U.S. Capitol Police re: Comments of concern for Jan 6
                  rally, collecting Parler posts).
               390.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001532.0001, p.2
                  (January 5, 2021, FBI Situational Information Report).
               391.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000001532.0001, p.2
                  (January 5, 2021, FBI Situational Information Report).
               392.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000293417 (December
                  30, 2020, email to OSU-ALL titled Discovery of Event Website- MAGA Drag the Interstate
                  &amp; Occupy the Capitol).
               393.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000083, CTRL0000000083.0001
                  (January 5, 2021, email re: (U//FOUO//LES) OSINT Post of Concern.).
               394.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000083, CTRL0000000083.0001
                  (January 5, 2021, email  re: (U//FOUO//LES) OSINT Post of Concern.).
               395.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000000083, CTRL0000000083.0001
                  (January 5, 2021, email  re: (U//FOUO//LES) OSINT Post of Concern.).
               396.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), USSS0000066986, USSS0000066986.0001
                  (January 5, 2021, Secret Service email noting social media user threatening to bring
                  a firearm to Washington, D.C. on January 6th).
               397.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Production), DOI_46000114_00000238,
                  DOI_46000114_00000239 (January 5, 2021, Situational Information Report Federal Bureau
                  of Investigation. Potential for Violence in Washington, D.C. Area in Connection with
                  Planned StopTheSteal Protest on 6 January 2021.).
               398.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6thAttack
                  on the United States Capitol (Department of Interior Production), DOI_46000114_00000238,
                  DOI_46000114_00000239 (January 5, 2021, Situational Information Report Federal Bureau
                  of Investigation. Potential for Violence in Washington, D.C. Area in Connection with
                  Planned StopTheSteal Protest on 6 January 2021.).
               399.  Trial Exhibit 6923 (1.S.159.817, 955), United States v. Rhodes et al., No. 22-cr-15 (D.D.C. Oct. 14, 2022) ( Rhodes sent an encrypted message to Oath
                  Keeper leadership on January 5, 2021, stating: We will have several well equipped
                  QRFs outside DC.  And there are many, many others, from other groups, who will be
                  watching and waiting on the outside in case of worst case scenarios.).
               400.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014441-MM01442 (December
                  30, 2020, 6:05 p.m. ET text from Jason Miller to Mark Meadows).
               401.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), Exhibit 45, pp. 4, 13. Miller claimed
                  he had no idea about the comments and would have flag[ged] them for Secret Service
                  had he seen them. Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Deposition of Jason Miller, (Feb. 3, 2022), pp. 210-12.
               402.  On his way to the Capitol, Proud Boy David Nicholas Dempsey stopped on the National
                  Mall in front of an erected gallows, fitted with a noose, to tell the world what he
                  hoped would happen: Them worthless shitholes like Jerry Nadler, fuckin Pelosi . . . They dont need a jail cell. They need to hang from these motherfuckers [pointing
                  to gallows]. They need to get the point across that the time for peace is over. . . . For four, or five years really, theyve been fucking demonizing us, belittling us,
                  . . . doing everything they can to stop what this is, and people are sick of that shit
                  . . . . Hopefully one day soon we really have someone hanging from one of these motherfuckers
                  . . . . Statement of Facts at 2-3, United States v. Dempsey, No. 1:21-cr-566 (D.D.C. Aug. 25, 2021); #SeditionHunters (@SeditionHunters), Twitter, Mar. 11, 2021 8:12 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SeditionHunters/status/1370180789770588163. 
               403.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 49.
               404.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (May 17, 2022), p. 92.
               405.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_035, SC_HH_036 (January
                  6, 2021, text messages with Hogan Gidley). 
               406.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Hope Hicks, (Oct. 25, 2022), pp. 109-10.
               407.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, DC
                  Production), CTRL0000926794 (Talking points put together by Dr. Christopher Rodriguez,
                  Director of HSEMA, for a briefing with Mayor Muriel Bowers on December 30, 2020).
                  
               408.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Donnell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), pp. 22-23.
               409.  Given the timing of receipt of much of this intelligence immediately in advance of
                  January 6th, it is unclear that any comprehensive intelligence community analytical
                  product could have been reasonably expected. But it is clear that the information
                  itself was communicated.
               410.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Caroline Wren Production), REVU_000181 (January 2, 2021,
                  email from Katrina Pierson to Caroline Wren and Taylor Budowich re: 1/6 Speaker Schedule).
                  
               411.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kylie Kremer Production), KKremer5449; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               412.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 83, 86.
               413.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               414.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Robert Bobby Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 64.
               415.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Robert  Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 21.
               416.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), p. 152.
               417.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), p. 152.
               418.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), p. 152.
               419.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Mar. 29, 2022), p. 16.
               420.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police Production), CTRL0000086772, p. 4 (November
                  18, 2021, document titled: United States Secret Service - Coordinated Response to
                  a Request for Information from the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol). 
               421.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Nick Quested Production), Video file ML_DC_20210106_Sony_FS7-GC_1935.mov;
                  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 (Summary
                  of updates from January 6, 2021); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Dustin Thompson, (Nov.
                  16, 2022), pp. 30-31 (I was seeing these, like, piles of backpacks and flagpoles
                  [outside the magnetometers]. And some people were watching that for other people.
                  And I justthere were lots of piles all over the place of stuff like that.).
               422.  Tom Jackman, Rachel Weiner, and Spencer S. Hsu, Evidence of Firearms in Jan. 6 Crowd
                  Grows as Arrests and Trials Mount, Washington Post, (July 8, 2022), https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/07/08/jan6-defendants-guns/. 
               423.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Secret Service Production), CTRL0000882478 (summary
                  of radio traffic on January 6, 2021). 
               424.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), MPD 73-78 (District
                  of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, Transcript of Radio Calls, January 6,
                  2021); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol (District of Columbia Production), CTRL0000070375,
                  at 3:40 (District of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, audio file of radio
                  traffic from January 6, 2021, from 12:00 - 13:00).
               425.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Cassidy Hutchinson Production), CH-CTRL0000000069.
               426.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               427.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Employee, (Nov. 7, 2022), p.
                     77 (The most--the thing that sticks out most was he kept asking why we couldnt go,
                     why we couldnt go, and that he wasnt concerned about the people that were there
                     or referenced them being Trump people or Trump supporters.).
               428.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27. 
               429.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               430.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 20-21.
               431.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 24, 26.
               432.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 26.
               433.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 23.
               434.  See Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  at 1:00:00  1:02:31, available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6 (timestamping the speech). 
               435.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               436.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:00:45-1:01:12, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=3645; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Janet West Buhler, (Feb. 28, 2022), p. 40.  
               437.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27.
               438.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27. 
               439.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27. 
               440.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 0:14:11-0:15:00, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851; Hearing on Motion to Modify Conditions of Release, Exhibit 07 at 7:43 - 8:00, United States v. Nichols, No. 1:21-cr-117 (D.D.C. Dec. 20, 2021). 
               441.  Unframe of Mind, Unframe of Mind in DC #stopthesteal Rally, YouTube, at 9:40  9:47, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFbvpBu_7ws&amp;t=579s; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at, at 0:14:11-0:15:00, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=851. 
               442.  Walter Masterson, Live from the Trump Rally in Washington, D.C., YouTube, at 17:32
                   17:50, Jan. 11, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFbvpBu_7ws&amp;t=579s; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at, at 2:07:02-2:07:07, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7609.
               443.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022) at, at 2:07:13-2:07:47, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7609. 
               444.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:00:45-1:01:12, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=3645; On the Media, Jessica Watkins on Stop the Steal J6 Zello Channel (Unedited), Soundcloud, at 4:00-4:18, available at https://soundcloud.com/user-403747081/jessica-watkins-on-stop-the-steal-j6-zello-channel-unedited. 
               445.  For a video of the interview, see Crown Point, Indiana Man Charged in Jan. 6 Capitol Riot Says He Has No Regrets,
                  CBS Chicago, Nov. 29, 2022, available at https://www.cbsnews.com/chicago/video/crown-point-indiana-man-charged-in-jan-6-capitol-riot-says-he-has-no-regrets/#x.
               446.  Transcript of Trumps Speech at Rally before US Capitol Riot, Associated Press, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27 (emphasis added).
               447.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 49.
               448.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 131
                  (I just didnt think it would be, you know, a good idea for the President to go up
                  to the Capitol.). While Cipollone did not specifically recall talking with Cassidy
                  Hutchinson about this topic, he informed the Select Committee that he was sure that
                  he did express his view to some people. Id. Hutchinson believes it was Pat Cipollone, but also testified that it may have been
                  a different lawyer. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 113-16.
               449.  For security reasons, the Select Committee is not releasing the name of this employee.
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House employee with national security responsibilities,
                  (July 19, 2022) at p. 73.  See also Chapter 7, which discusses this topic in greater detail.
               450.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of United States Secret Service Agent, (Nov. 21, 2022), pp.
                  22-23. The Select Committee has agreed to keep confidential the identity of this witness
                  due to their sensitive national security responsibilities. 
               451.  A book written by Chief of Staff Mark Meadows in December 2021 made the categorical
                  claim that the President never intended to travel to the Capitol that day. See Mark Meadows, The Chiefs Chief (St. Petersburg, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 250. The Committees evidence demonstrates
                  that Meadowss claim is categorically false.  Because the Meadows book conflicted
                  sharply with information that was being received by the Select Committee, the Committee
                  became increasingly wary that other witnesses might intentionally conceal what happened.
                  That appeared to be the case with Ornato.  Ornato does not recall that he conveyed
                  the information to Cassidy Hutchinson regarding the SUV, and also does not recall
                  that he conveyed similar information to a White House employee with national security
                  responsibilities who testified that Ornato recalled a similar account to him.  The
                  Committee is skeptical of  Ornatos account.
               452.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022), p. 45. The
                  Select Committee has agreed to keep confidential the identity of this witness due
                  to their sensitive national security responsibilities.
               453.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), p. 159.
               454.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 8.
               455.  Governments Sentencing Memorandum at 2-9, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sept. 13, 2022), ECF No. 140; 167 Cong. Rec. S619 (daily
                  ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf; Michael S. Schmidt and Luke Broadwater, Officers Injuries, Including Concussions, Show Scope of Violence at Capitol Riot, New York Times, (Feb. 11, 2021), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/11/us/politics/capitol-riot-police-officer-injuries.html.
               456.  See Sentencing Transcript at 35, United States v. Griffith, No. 1:21-cr-204 (D.D.C. Oct. 30, 2021), ECF No. 137; Kyle Cheney and Josh Gerstein,
                  Where Jan. 6 Prosecutions Stand, 18 Months after the Attack, Politico, (July 7, 2022), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2022/07/07/jan-6-prosecutions-months-later-00044354.
               457.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 2:36:58-2:37:30, 2:44:00-2:45:05, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrUa0hfG6Lo ([W]hen President Trump put his tweet out, we literally left right after that come
                  out . . . As soon as that come out, everybody started talking about it . . . it definitely
                  dispersed a lot of the crowd. . . . We left.); Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:58:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo (Im here delivering the Presidents message. Donald Trump has asked everybody to
                  go home. . . . Thats our order.).
               458.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:50:59-1:52:19, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=6659; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), at 2:15:45-2:17:12, available at https://youtu.be/IQvuBoLBuC0?t=8145; CBS News, Former Vice President Mike Pence on Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan | Full Interview, YouTube, at 16:23-19:01, Nov. 21, 2022, available at https://youtu.be/U9GbkPhG1Lo?t=983; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), p. 173.
               459.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 27. The Select
                  Committee is not revealing the identity of this witness to guard against the risk
                  of retaliation; See Donald Trump Speech Save America Rally Transcript January 6, Rev, (Jan. 6, 2021),
                  available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-speech-save-america-rally-transcript-january-6 (timestamping the speech).
               460.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), Photo file 40a8_hi_j0087_0bea;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 34:18, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=2058.
               461.  Washington Post, D.C. Police requested backup at least 17 times in 78 minutes during
                  Capitol riot | Visual Forensics, YouTube, at 7:58 to 8:45, Apr. 15, 2021, available
                  at https://youtu.be/rsQTY9083r8?t=478;  Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Senate Committee
                  on Rules and Administration, Public Hearing, (Mar. 3, 2021), Written Testimony of
                  William J. Walker, Commanding General District of Columbia National Guard, p. 3, available
                  at https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Testimony-Walker-2021-03-03.pdf. 
               462.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Shealah Craighead, (June 8, 2022), pp. 42, 46.  
               463.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000261; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               464.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000257; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               465.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), p. 138.
               466.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (Jul. 8, 2022), p. 174; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Deposition of Keith Kellogg Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), pp. 12627;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 151-52; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Christopher
                  Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 124-26; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of General Mark A.
                  Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 80-82; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 186-90.
               467.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), pp. 127, 129, 131-32, 137, 141, 143-44,
                  148-49, 159.
               468.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               469.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 163-64; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               470.  Senator Lee wrote to a reporter that he received a call from the President moments
                  after the Senate halted its proceedings and that the President claimed he had dialed
                  Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-AL), so Lee let Tuberville talk to the President on his phone
                  for 5 or 10 minutes until they were ordered to evacuate. Bryan Schott, What Sen.
                  Mike Lee Told Me about Trumps Call the Day of the Capitol Riot, Salt Lake Tribune, (Feb. 10, 2021, updated Feb. 11, 2021), available at https://www.sltrib.com/news/politics/2021/02/11/what-sen-mike-lee-told-me/; see also Kyle Cheney, Tuberville Says He Informed Trump of Pences Evacuation before Rioters
                  Reached Senate, Politico, (Feb. 11, 2021), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2021/02/11/tuberville-pences-evacuation-trump-impeachment-468572.  
               471.  167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 1:49 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210107235835/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346891760174329859 (archived).
               472.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 149-50.
               473.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 150-51.
               474.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), at 1:39:03-1:40:42, available at https://youtu.be/HeQNV-aQ_jU?t=5943. Two witnesses recall writing this note: Cassidy Hutchinson and Eric Herschmann, although Hutchinson recalls that Herschmann was responsible for the revision made to the note.  The Committees review of Hutchinsons
                  handwriting was consistent with the script of the note.  Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson,
                  (Feb. 23, 2022), p. 167; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 67-68. Who wrote the note is not material to the Select Committeethe
                  important point is that it was prepared for the President.
               475.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 162.
               476.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), at 1:27:52-1:28:53, available at https://youtu.be/HeQNV-aQ_jU?t=5272; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 25-26. 
               477.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 161; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:29:30 - 1:31:51, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo.
               478.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House employee with national security responsibilities,
                  (July 19, 2022), pp. 12-15, 98-99; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 38:02-38:44, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=2283.  
               479.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), pp. 108-09.
               480.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               481.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 163.
               482.  Third Superseding Indictment at 21, United States v. Nordean et al., No. 1:21-cr-175 (D.D.C. June 6, 2022), ECF No. 380 (noting that Dominic Pezzola used [a] riot shield . . . to break a window of the Capitol at 2:13 p.m. and that [t]he first members of
                  the mob entered the Capitol through this broken window.); 167 Cong. Rec. S634 (daily ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf. 
               483.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014907.
               484.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014912.
               485.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014919.
               486.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014925.
               487.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014933.
               488.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014935.
               489.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014937.
               490.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014939.
               491.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014944.
               492.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014961.
               493.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               494.  U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (@SenBillCassidy), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 4:03 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/SenBillCassidy/status/1346925444189327361.
               495.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014971.
               496.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), pp. 149-50; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Julie Radford, (May 25, 2022), p. 37.
               497.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Jared Kushner, (Mar. 31, 2022), pp. 145, 150.
               498.  Leader McCarthy spoke on the air to Fox News starting at 3:05 p.m. ET and told the
                  network that Ive already talked to the President. I called him. I think we need
                  to make a statement, make sure that we can calm individuals down. Fox News (FoxNews), LISTEN: Rep. Kevin McCarthy on protesters storming Capitol, Facebook, at 3:27-3:40,
                  Jan. 6, 2021 (uploaded to Facebook at 3:35 p.m. ET), available at https://www.facebook.com/FoxNews/videos/listen-rep-kevin-mccarthy-on-protesters-storming-capitol/232725075039919/.
               499.  CBS News, Live coverage: Protesters Swarm Capitol, Abruptly Halting Electoral Vote
                  Count, YouTube, at 3:29:02-3:29:15, 3:29:43-3:30:03, 3:31:28-3:32:07, 3:33:52-3:34:12,
                  Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://youtu.be/3Fsf4aWudJk?t=12542.  
               500.  Rep. Herrera Beutler Describes Efforts to Get Trump to Intervene in Stopping Jan. 6 riot, WTHR (Feb.
                  13, 2021), at 1:20 - 1:50, available at https://www.wthr.com/video/news/nation-world/capitol-riot-herrera-beutler-trump-mccarthy-call/507-477fa84f-1277-444a-aad6-716c5ec9f66f. 
               501.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of John Michael Mick Mulvaney, (July 28, 2022), p. 43. CNNs Jamie Gangel related that she also confirmed the account with multiple other sources, reporting
                  that Ive spoken to multiple Republican Members of the House who have knowledge of
                  that call, who tell us that after Trump tried to say to Kevin, these are not my people,
                  its Antifa, Kevin McCarthy said to Trump, no, its not Antifa. These are your people. . . .  Were also told by several other Republican Members that Kevin McCarthy wasnt shy
                  about this heated exchange with Trump, that he wanted his Members to know about it.
                  CNN, New Details Emerge in McCarthys Call with Trump on January 6, YouTube, at 0:25 - 1:50, Feb. 12, 2021, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gy1FPNluoOE.
               502.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of John Michael Mick Mulvaney, (July 28, 2022), pp. 10-12 (describing
                  calls and text messages to Dan Scavino and Mark Meadows).
               503.  See, e.g., Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (HBO Production), Video file Reel_204I - All Clips Compilation.mp4
                  at 5:325:55 (January 6, 2021, footage  of Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer on phone
                  call with Jeffrey Rosen); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014906
                  (January 6, 2021 text message from Marjorie Taylor Greene to Mark Meadows), MM014919
                  (January 6, 2021 text message from William Timmons to Mark Meadows), MM014939 (January
                  6, 2021 text message from Chip Roy to Mark Meadows).
               504.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 151.
               505.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 162.
               506.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 152.
               507.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 0:57:48 - 0:58:19, available at https://youtu.be/pbRVqWbHGuo?t=3468.
               508.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Security Official, (July 11, 2022), pp. 81-83;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th. The Select Committee is not revealing the identity of this witness because of national
                  security concerns as well as to guard against the risk of retaliation. 
               509.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1346900434540240897.jpg (archived).
               510.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:11:22-2:13:55, available at https://youtu.be/vBjUWVKuDj0?t=7882.
               511.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:26:06-2:26:26, available at https://youtu.be/IQvuBoLBuC0?t=8766; Sentencing Transcript at 19, United States v. Young, No. 1:21-cr-291 (D.D.C. Sept. 27, 2022), ECF No. 170 (testifying for a victim impact
                  statement, Officer Michael Fanone said: At approximately 1435 hours, with rapidly mounting injuries and most of the
                  MPD less than lethal munitions expended, the defending officers were forced to conduct
                  a fighting withdrawal back towards the United States Capitol Building entrance. This
                  is the first fighting withdrawal in the history of the Metropolitan Police Department.).
               512.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               513.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               514.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Judson P. Deere, (Mar. 3, 2022), p. 113.
               515.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 160.
               516.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Hope Hicks Production), SC_HH_043-044 (January 6, 2021,
                  text message from Hope Hicks to Julie Radford at 7:18 p.m.).
               517.  167 Cong. Rec. S635 (daily ed. Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/02/10/CREC-2021-02-10-pt1-PgS615-4.pdf; Spencer S. Hsu, Pence Spent Jan. 6 at Underground Senate Loading Dock, Secret Service
                  Confirms, Washington Post, (Mar. 21, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/03/21/couy-griffin-cowboys-trump-jan6/. 
               518.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Molly Michael, (Mar. 24, 2022), p. 137.
               519.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               520.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27.
               521.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), at 1:31:25  1:32:22, available at https://youtu.be/HeQNV-aQ_jU?t=5359; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 27-28.
               522.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 182.
               523.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 68-69, 71.
               524.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:38 p.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1346904110969315332.jpg (archived).
               525.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               526.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 3:13 p.m. ET, available at https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1346912780700577792.jpg (archived). 
               527.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014925.
               528.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014944.
               529.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               530.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th].
               531.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000004112_0001
                  (January 6, 2021 email at 3:05 p.m. notifying Beau Harrison of Ashli Babbitt shooting);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of William Beau Harrison (Aug. 18, 2022), pp. 7376 (describing
                  writing note and passing it to Mark Meadows or Tony Ornato); Documents on file with
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                  (National Archives Production), P-R000241 (January 6, 2021 pocket card written by
                  Beau Harrison with the message, 1x CIVILIAN GUNSHOT WOUND TO CHEST @ DOOR OF HOUSE
                  CHABER [sic]); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), pp.
                  4647 (I remember seeing that [note] in front of [President Trump], yeah.). The
                  Select Committee is not revealing the identity of this witness to guard against the
                  risk of retaliation. See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Anthony Ornato, (January 28, 2022), p. 115; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 87 (recalling announcing during the afternoon
                  that a Trump supporter had been killed).
               532.  Department of Justice Closes Investigation into the Death of Ashli Babbitt, Department
                  of Justice, (Apr. 14, 2021), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/department-justice-closes-investigation-death-ashli-babbitt.
               533.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th; ABC News, Mike Pence Opens Up with David Muir on Jan. 6: Exclusive, YouTube, at
                  9:27-10:00, Nov. 14, 2022, available at https://youtu.be/-AAyKAoPFQs?t=567; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 80-81; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller
                  (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 124-25; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Jeffrey Rosen, (Oct. 13, 2021),
                  pp. 172-73, 182-84; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the
                  United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021),
                  p. 186.
               534.  NBC News, Biden Condemns Chaos at the Capitol as Insurrection, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBCWTqJT7M4; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               535.  Trump Video Telling Protesters at Capitol Building to Go Home: Transcript, Rev,
                  (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/trump-video-telling-protesters-at-capitol-building-to-go-home-transcript. 
               536.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               537.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th
               538.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 2:36:58-2:37:30, 2:44:00-2:45:05, available
                  at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrUa0hfG6Lo ([W]hen President Trump put his tweet out, we literally left right after that come
                  out . . . As soon as that come out, everybody started talking about it . . . it definitely
                  dispersed a lot of the crowd. . . . We left.).
               539.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 1:58:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo.
               540.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 1:58:00, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo.
               541.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 at 6:01 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210106232133/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346954970910707712 (archived).
               542.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               543.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Timothy Murtaugh, (May 19, 2022), p. 175; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               544.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), p. 194; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               545.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Greg Jacob, (Feb. 1, 2022), p. 192.
               546.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of White House Employee, (June 10, 2022), p. 53. The Select
                  Committee is not revealing the identity of this witness to guard against the risk
                  of retaliation.
               547.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022); Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               548.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 205-07; Sunlen Serfaty, Devan Cole, and Alex Rogers, As Riot Raged at Capitol, Trump Tried to Call Senators
                  to Overturn Election, CNN, (Jan. 8, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/08/politics/mike-lee-tommy-tuberville-trump-misdialed-capitol-riot; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (Rudolph Giuliani Production, Mar. 11, 2022); Documents
                  on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               549.  Mike Pence, So Help Me God (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2022), p. 475.
               550.  Mike Pence, So Help Me God (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2022), p. 474.
               551.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund,
                  (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 170-71; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone,
                  (Jul. 8, 2022), p. 174; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Deposition of Keith Kellogg Jr., (Dec. 14, 2021), pp. 12627;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 151-52; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Christopher
                  Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 124-26; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of General Mark A.
                  Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 80-82; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th
                  Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue,
                  (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 186-89; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022),
                  pp. 21-22. 
               552.  ABC News, Pence Opens Up with David Muir on Jan. 6: Exclusive, YouTube, at 10:45-11:02,
                  Nov. 14, 2022, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-AAyKAoPFQs. 
               553.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Steven Andrew Sund, (Apr. 20, 2022), pp. 170-71; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (Jul. 8, 2022), p. 174; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Keith Kellogg Jr.,
                  (Dec. 14, 2021), pp. 12627; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 151-52;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller, (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 124-26;
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 80-82; Select
                  Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed
                  Interview of Richard Peter Donoghue, (Oct. 1, 2021), pp. 186-89; Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Muriel Bowser, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 21-22.
               554.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley (Nov. 17, 2021), pp. 17, 268.
               555.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 296; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on
                  the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               556.  Glenn Kessler, Trump Falsely Claims He Requested 10,000 Troops Rejected by Pelosi,
                  Washington Post, (Mar. 2, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/03/02/trump-falsely-claims-he-requested-10000-troops-rejected-by-pelosi/; Mark Meadows: Biden Administration Policies Put America Last, Fox News, (Feb. 7, 2021), available at https://www.foxnews.com/transcript/mark-meadows-biden-administration-policies-put-america-last. 
               557.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Christopher Charles Miller (Jan. 14, 2022), pp. 100-01. On
                  January 4, 2021, Max Miller and Katrina Pierson exchanged text messages discussing
                  their planning activities for the 6th. In those messages, Max Miller stated: Just
                  glad we killed the national guard and a procession and that . . . chief [Mark Meadows]
                  already had said no for days!. Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Max Miller Production), Miller
                  Production 0001 (January 4, 2021, text messages between Max Miller and Katrina Pierson).
                  
               558.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 2:22:45-2:23:22, available at https://youtu.be/rrUa0hfG6Lo?t=8565; Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Katrina Pierson Production), KPierson0717-719.
               559.  House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy on Asking President Trump for his Resignation, ed. Alex Burns and Jonathan Martin, ThisWillNotPass.com, (Jan. 8, 2021), available
                  at https://www.thiswillnotpass.com/bookresources.
               560.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014456.
               561.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014858 - MM014861.
               562.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014467 (December 31, 2020,
                  text message from telephone number assigned to Carrah Jo Roy, wife of Rep. Chip Roy.
                  to Mark Meadows). The Select Committee believes that Rep. Chip Roy sent this message.
               563.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014503 (January 1, 2021,
                  text message from telephone number assigned to Carrah Jo Roy, wife of Rep. Chip Roy.
                  to Mark Meadows). The Select Committee believes that Rep. Chip Roy sent this message.
               564.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Kayleigh McEnany Production), CTRL0000925383, p. 3 (January
                  7, 2021, text message from Sean Hannity to Kayleigh McEnany)
               565.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM015209 (January 10, 2021,
                  text message Sean Hannity to Mark Meadows and Jim Jordan).
               566.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014906.
               567.  U.S. House Impeaches President Trump for Second Time, 232-197, C-SPAN, at 4:14:56 - 4:15:31, Jan. 13, 2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507879-101/house-impeaches-president-trump-time-232-197&amp;live=. 
               568.  Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy says Pres. Trump Admitted He Bears Some Responsibility
                  for the January 6 Insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, ed. Alex Burns and Jonathan Martin, ThisWillNotPass.com, (Jan. 11, 2021), available
                  at https://www.thiswillnotpass.com/bookresources.
               569.  Statement by Mo Brooks, Mo Brooks for U.S. Senate, available at https://mobrooks.com/statement-by-mo-brooks/; Joe Walsh, GOP Rep. Mo Brooks Claims Trump Asked Him to Reinstate Trump Presidency, Forbes, (Mar. 23, 2022), available at https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/23/gop-rep-mo-brooks-claims-trump-asked-him-to-reinstate-trump-presidency/?sh=7264e1d91edd (noting that Rep. Mo Brooks issued this statement on Wednesday, March 23, 2022).
               570.  See Ryan Goodman and Josh Asabor, In Their Own Words: The 43 Republicans Explanations of Their Votes Not to Convict
                  Trump in Impeachment Trial, Just Security, (Feb. 15, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74725/in-their-own-words-the-43-republicans-explanations-of-their-votes-not-to-convict-trump-in-impeachment-trial/.
               571.  C-SPAN, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell Remarks Following Senate Impeachment
                  Vote, YouTube, at 5:10  5:46, (Feb. 13, 2021), available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxRMoqNnfvw. 
               572.  Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy Says Pres. Trump Admitted He Bears Some Responsibility
                  for the January 6 Insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, Alex Burns and Jonathan Martin, eds., ThisWillNotPass.com, (Jan. 11, 2021), available at https://www.thiswillnotpass.com/bookresources; Melanie Zanona, New Audio Reveals McCarthy said Trump Admitted Bearing Some Responsibility for
                  Capitol Attack, CNN, (April 22, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/22/politics/trump-january-6-responsibility-book/index.html. Leader McCarthy also relayed this conversation with President Trump to his Republican colleagues:
                  I asked him [Trump] personally today, does he hold responsibility for what happened.
                  And he needs to acknowledge that. Id. The Committee believes that House Republican Leader McCarthys testimony would be
                  material to any criminal investigation of Donald Trump, not just to probe this apparent
                  Trump acknowledgement of culpability, but also because Leader McCarthy spoke directly
                  to Donald Trump and others who were in the White House on January 6th and unsuccessfully
                  pleaded for the Presidents immediate assistance to halt the violence. Leader McCarthy did not comply with the Select Committees subpoena.  
               573.  U.S. House Impeaches President Trump for Second Time, 232-197, C-SPAN, at 4:14:56 - 4:15:31, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507879-101/house-impeaches-president-trump-time-232-197&amp;live=; 167 Cong. Rec. H172 (daily ed. Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2021/01/13/CREC-2021-01-13-pt1-PgH165.pdf.
               574.  See supra, Executive Summary. 
               575.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               576.  Documents on file with the Select Committee (National Archives Production), VP-R0000156_0001
                  (January 6, 2021, email chain between John Eastman and Greg Jacob re: Pennsylvania
                  letter).
               577.  Documents on file with Select Committee (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738
                   HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes
                  from Richard Donoghue).
               578.  See supra, Executive Summary.  The State legislatures lacked authority to change the lawful
                  outcome of the State elections at that point. Nevertheless Eastman, Trump, and others
                  nevertheless pushed for such action. 
               579.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               580.  See supra, Executive Summary; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 19, 2020 1:42 a.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20201219064257/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1340185773220515840 (archived); see also, e.g., Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 26, 2020 8:14 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1342821189077622792; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 27, 2020 5:51 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1343328708963299338; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Dec. 30, 2020 2:06 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1344359312878149634; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 12:52 p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40KylieJaneKremer%22 (retweeting @KylieJaneKremer, Dec. 19, 2020 3:50 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/KylieJaneKremer/status/1340399063875895296); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 2:53 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345095714687377418; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 3:34 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345106078141394944; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 1, 2021 6:38 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345152408591204352; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 2, 2021 9:04 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345551634907209730; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 1:29 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realDonaldTrump%3A+https%3A%2F%2Ft.co%2FnslWcFwkCj%22 (retweeting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Jan. 2, 2021 9:04 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345551634907209730); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:15 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40JenLawrence21%22 (retweeting Jennifer Lynn Lawrence (@JenLawrence21), Jan. 3, 2021 12:17 a.m. ET,
                  available at https://twitter.com/JenLawrence21/status/1345600194826686464); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:17 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40CodeMonkeyZ+if%22 (retweeting Ron Watkins (@CodeMonkeyZ) Jan. 2, 2021 9:14 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103151826/https://twitter.com/CodeMonkeyZ/status/1345599512560078849 (archived)); Donald J. Trump, (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:24 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realMikeLindell%22 (retweeting Mike Lindell (@realMikeLindell), Jan. 2, 2021 5:47 p.m. ET, available at http://web.archive.org/web/20210103152421/https://twitter.com/realMikeLindell/status/1345547185836978176 (archived)); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345753534168506370; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 3, 2021 10:28 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40AmyKremer+we%22 (retweeting Amy Kremer (@AmyKremer), Jan. 2, 2021 2:58 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/AmyKremer/status/1345459488107749386); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 4, 2021 9:46 a.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22RT+%40realDonaldTrump+I+will+be+there.+Historic+day%21%22 (retweeting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Jan. 3, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345753534168506370); Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 10:27 a.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346478482105069568; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021 5:43 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346588064026685443. 
               581.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22mike+pence+%22&amp;results=1 (archived) (MikePencedidnt have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our
                  Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of
                  facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify.
                  USA demands the truth!); USA Today Graphics (@usatgraphics), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021 9:56 p.m. ET, available at https://twitter.com/usatgraphics/status/1347376642956603392 (screenshotting the since-deleted tweet).
               582.  Trump Video Telling Protesters at Capitol Building to Go Home: Transcript, Rev,
                  (Jan. 6, 2021), available at https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/trump-video-telling-protesters-at-capitol-building-to-go-home-transcript; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 2:36:58-2:37:30 and 2:44:00-2:45:05,
                  available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrUa0hfG6Lo  ([W]hen President Trump put his tweet out, we literally left right after that come
                  out . . . As soon as that come out, everybody started talking about it . . . it definitely
                  dispersed a lot of the crowd. . . . We left.).
               583.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 316, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. March 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               584.   Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 5353, 58, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. March 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM) (referring
                  to two Federal criminal statutes).
               585.  Order Re Privilege of 599 Documents Dated November 3, 2020  January 20, 2021 at
                  24, Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM, (C.D. Cal. June 7, 2022), ECF No. 24. 
               586.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 6364, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. March 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               587.   Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 64, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. March 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               588.  See 23 Months Since the January 6th Attack on the Capitol, Department of Justice, (Dec.
                     8, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/23-months-january-6-attack-capitol.
               589.  Kyle Cheney, Rep. Scott Perry Suing to Block DOJ Access to His Cell Phone, Politico, (Aug. 24, 2022), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2022/08/24/rep-scott-perry-suing-to-block-doj-access-to-his-cell-phone-00053486; Betsy Woodruff Swan, Josh Gerstein, and Kyle Cheney, DOJ Searches Home of Former Official Who Aided Alleged Pro-Trump Coup, Politico, (June 23, 2022), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2022/06/23/law-enforcement-trump-official-coup-00041767.
               590.  See, e.g., Sarah Murray, Evan Perez, and Katelyn Polantz, Federal Judge Orders Former Top Lawyers in Trumps White House to Testify in Criminal
                  Grand Jury Probe, CNN, (Dec. 1, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/12/01/politics/cipollone-philbin-trump-lawyers-testify. 
               591.  Sara Murray and Jason Morris, Fulton County Prosecutor Investigating Trump Aims for Indictments as Soon as December, CNN, (Oct. 6, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/10/06/politics/fani-willis-georgia-prosecutor-trump-indictments-december/index.html.
               592.  The Special Counsel is to oversee the Departments ongoing investigation into whether
                  any person or entity unlawfully interfered with the transfer of power following the
                  2020 Presidential election or the certification of the Electoral College vote held on or
                  about January 6, 2021. Appointment of a Special Counsel, Department of Justice, (Nov. 18, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/appointment-special-counsel-0. In addition, the Special Counsel is to oversee the Departments ongoing investigation
                  involving classified documents and other Presidential records, as well as the possible obstruction of that investigation. .
                  . .  Id.
               593.  The House of Representatives held Meadows in contempt for refusing to testify before
                  the Committee, 167 Cong. Rec. H7814-7815 (daily ed. Dec. 14, 2021), but DOJ declined to prosecute him. See Josh Gerstein, Kyle Cheny, and Nicholas Wu, DOJ Declines to Charge Meadows, Scavino with Contempt of Congress for Defying Jan. 6 Committee, Politico, (June 3, 2022), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2022/06/03/doj-declines-to-charge-meadows-scavino-with-contempt-of-congress-for-defying-jan-6-committee-00037230.  
               594.  18 U.S.C.  1512(c)(2).
               595.  According to DOJ, [a] conviction under Section 1512(c)(2) requires proof that:
                  (1) the natural and probable effect of the defendants actions were to obstruct [influence
                  or impede] the official proceeding; (2) that [defendant] knew that his actions were
                  likely to obstruct [influence or impede] that proceeding; and (3) that he acted
                  with the wrongful or improper purpose of delaying or stopping the official proceeding.
                  United States v. Andries, No. 21-93 (RC), 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 44794 at *37 n.8 (D.D.C. Mar. 14, 2022) (quoting
                  Governments Response to Defendants Second Supplemental Brief at 6); see United States v. Aguilar; 515 U.S. 593, 616 (1995) (Scalia, J., concurring in part, dissenting in part) (describing
                  the longstanding and well-accepted meaning of corruptly as denoting an act done
                  with an intent to give some advantage inconsistent with official duty and the rights
                  of others (quoting United States v. Ogle, 613 F.2d 233, 238 (10th Cir. 1979))).
               596.  See, e.g., United States v. Gillespie, No. 22-CR-60 (BAH), 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 214833, at *7-8 (D.D.C. Nov. 29, 2022);
                  United States v. Seefried, No. 1:21-cr-287 (TNM), 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 196980, at *2-3 (D.D.C. Oct. 29, 2022);
                  United States v. Miller, 589 F. Supp. 3d 60, 67 (D.D.C. 2022), reconsideration denied, No. 1:21-CR-119 (CJN), 589 F. Supp. 3d 60 (D.D.C. May 27, 2022); United States v. Puma, No. 1:21-CR-454 (PLF), 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 48875, at *10 (D.D.C. Mar. 19, 2022);
                  United States v. McHugh, 583 F. Supp. 3d 1, 14-15 (D.D.C. 2022). See also T. Kanefield, January 6 Defendants Are Raising a Creative Defense. It Isnt Working, Washington Post, (Feb. 15, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2022/02/15/jan-6-official-proceeding/. 
               597.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               598.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               599.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               600.  Documents on file with the Select Committee (National Archives Production), VP-R0000156_0001
                  (January 6, 2021, email chain between John Eastman and Greg Jacob re: Pennsylvania
                  letter). One judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, in the
                  course of concluding that section 1512(c) is not void for vagueness, interpreted the
                  corruptly element as meaning contrary to law, statute, or established rule. United States v. Sandlin, 575 F. Supp. 3d. 1516, (D.D.C. 2021). As explained above, President Trump attempted
                  to cause the Vice President to violate the Electoral Count Act, and even Dr. Eastman
                  advised President Trump that the proposed course of action would violate the Act.
                  We believe this satisfies the corruptly element of the offense under the Sandlin opinion.
               601.  Indeed, it would not have been legally possible for a State to have done so in the
                  days before January 6th. 
               602.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 49-50, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. March 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               603.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               604.  Documents on file with Select Committee (Department of Justice Production), HCOR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000738
                  - COR-Pre-Certification-Events-07282021-000739 (December 27, 2020, handwritten notes
                  from Richard Donoghue).
               605.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               606.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               607.  See supra, Executive Summary. Jeffrey Clark invoked his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination
                  in response to questions regarding this letter. As already noted, the political appointee
                  who assisted in drafting the letter was hired at the Justice Department on December
                  15, 2020, but had worked on behalf of President Trump on election challenges in the
                  weeks beforehand (including, apparently, while simultaneously serving as Special Counsel
                  for the White House Office of Management and Budget). 
               608.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               609.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               610.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               611.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 26.
               612.  Documents on file with the Select Committee (National Archives Production), VP-R0000156_0001
                  (January 6, 2021, email chain between John Eastman and Greg Jacob re: Pennsylvania
                  letter).
               613.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 44. Although Eastman invoked his Fifth Amendment rights as a
                  reason not to answer any of this Committees substantive questions during his deposition,
                  he has recently suggested in public that he only wished to delay the count of votes
                  by multiple days. As the evidence developed by this Committee demonstrates, Eastman
                  knew that such an effort to delay the count would also be illegal. See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 1:32:00-1:35:13, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBjUWVKuDj0 ([D]id Dr. Eastman seem to admit that both of these theories suffered from similar
                  legal flaws? [T]his new theory, as I was pointing out to him, or the procedural theory,
                  still violates several provisions of the Electoral Count Act, as he acknowledged. . . .  So, he acknowledged in those conversations that the underlying legal theory was
                  the same. . . .). In addition, neither Eastman nor any other co-conspirator had information establishing
                  that any delay in counting votes would or could have changed the outcome of the election
                  in any State.  
               614.  See supra, Executive Summary.  We also note that these Republican Members of Congress, who
                  had more knowledge of Trumps planning for January 6th than any other Members of Congress,
                  were also likely in a far superior position than any other Members to warn the Capitol
                  Police of the risks of violence at the Capitol on January 6th.
               615.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 16, 2022), at 2:29:50, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBjUWVKuDj0 (Ive decided that I should be on the pardon list, if that is still in the works.).
               616.  The elements of a section 371 conspiracy to defraud the United States are: (1) at
                  least two people entered into an agreement to obstruct a lawful function of the government,
                  (2) by deceitful or dishonest means, and (3) amember of the conspiracy engaged in
                  at least one overt act in furtherance of the agreement.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 53, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM). Put similarly, to prove a violation section 371s defraud provision, the Government
                  must prove that the defendant: (1) agreed with at least one other person to defraud
                  the United States, (2) knowingly participated in the conspiracy with the intent to
                  defraud the United States, and (3) that at least one overt act was taken in furtherance
                  of the conspiracy. See United States v. Dean, 55 F.3d 640, 647 (D.C. Cir. 1995) (citing United States v. Treadwell, 760 F.2d 327, 333 (D.C. Cir. 1985)); see also United States v. Mellen, 158, 393 F.3d 175, 181 (D.C. Cir. 2004). An individual defrauds the Government for
                  purposes of section 371 if he interfere[s] with or obstruct[s] one of its lawful
                  governmental functions by deceit, craft or trickery, or at least by means that are
                  dishonest. Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265 U.S. 182, 188 (1924); see also United States v. Haldeman, 559 F.2d 31, 122 n.255 (D.C. Cir. 1976) (upholding jury verdict on instruction defining
                  defrauding the United States as: depriv[ing] the Government of its right to have
                  the officials of its departments and agencies transact their official business honestly
                  and impartially, free from corruption, fraud, improper and undue influence, dishonesty
                  and obstruction).
               617.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 54-55, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               618.  See Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 53, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM). (An agreement between co-conspirators need not be express and can be inferred
                  from the conspirators conduct.).
               619.  See infra, Chapter 1.
               620. Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 55, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               621.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 57, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               622.  See infra, Chapter 2. President Trumps call with Secretary Raffensperger may have violated several
                  provisions of both Federal and Georgia law. We do not attempt to catalogue all the
                  possible violations here.
               623.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 57, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               624.  Order Re Privilege of Documents Dated January 4-7, 2021 at 59, Eastman v. Thompson et al., 594 F. Supp. 3d 1156, (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022) (No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM).
               625.  908. ELEMENTS OF 18 U.S.C.  1001, Department of Justice, (last accessed on Dec. 13, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/archives/jm/criminal-resource-manual-908-elements-18-usc-1001.
               626.  The elements of a section 371 conspiracy are discussed above.
               627.  As explained in Chapter 3, staffers for Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) and Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI) reached out to Vice
                  President Pences director of legislative affairs, apparently seeking to deliver fake
                  certificates on January 6.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Chris Hodgson Production), 00012
                  (January 6, 2021, text message from Rep. Kellys chief of staff, Matt Stroia, to Chris
                  Hodgson on January at 8:41 a.m.), 00058 (January 6, 2021, text messages from Senator
                  Johnsons chief of staff, Sean Riley, to Chris Hodgson around 12:37 p.m.).
               628.  See infra, Chapter 3. 
               629.  18 U.S.C.  1001 (emphasis added).
               630.  See, e.g., United States v. Bowser, 964 F.3d 26, 31 (D.C. Cir. 2020), cert. denied, 141 S. Ct. 1390 (2021) ([T]he False Statements Act applies to any investigation
                  or review, conducted pursuant to the authority of any committee, subcommittee, commission
                  or office of the Congress. 18 U.S.C.  1001(c)(2) (emphasis added).); United States v. Stone, 394 F. Supp. 3d 1, 10 (D.D.C. 2019).
               631.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Business Meeting on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (Oct. 13, 2022), at 1:14:59-1:15:22 available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQvuBoLBuC0 ([President Trump] turned the call over to Mr. Eastman, who then proceeded to talk
                  about the importance of the RNC helping the campaign gather these contingent electors,
                  in case any of the legal challenges that were ongoing changed the result of any of
                  the states.).
               632.  18 U.S.C.  2383.
               633.  Thompson v. Trump, 590 F. Supp. 3d 46, 115 (D.D.C. 2022), appeal pending, No. 22-5069 (D.C. Cir. Mar. 18, 2022).
               634.  See Ryan Goodman and Josh Asabor, In Their Own Words: The 43 Republicans Explanations of Their Votes Not to Convict
                  Trump in Impeachment Trial, Just Security, (Feb. 15, 2021), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/74725/in-their-own-words-the-43-republicans-explanations-of-their-votes-not-to-convict-trump-in-impeachment-trial/.
               635.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               636.  See supra, Executive Summary. The evidence suggests that the Vice President and certain members of President Trumps
                  staff urged DOD to deploy the National Guard notwithstanding the Presidents wishes.
                  
               637.  A prominent U.S. professor of criminal law has opined that President Trump can be
                  held criminally responsible under section 2383 for his failure to act, when he had a duty to act given his constitutional
                  obligation under Article II section 3 of the Constitution to take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.
                  See Albert W. Alschuler, Trump and the Insurrection Act: The Legal Framework, Just Security, (Aug. 16, 2022), available at https://www.justsecurity.org/82696/trump-and-the-insurrection-act-the-true-legal-framework/. Professor Albert Alschuler, the Julius Kreeger Professor Emeritus at the University of Chicago Law School, taught criminal law for
                  over 50 years at many of our Nations leading law schools. He has published a number of analytical pieces applying
                  the assists and aid and comfort clauses of that provisions (which he analogizes
                  to aiding and abetting accomplice liability) to the evidence presented at the Committees
                  hearings. In any event, as described above, President Trump did act, including through his 2:24 p.m. tweet about the Vice President that inflamed
                  the crowd attacking the Capitol.
               638.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022) p. 26.
               639.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 21, 2022), at 1:02:53, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRVqWbHGuo; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 2:24 p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox="didnt+have+the+courage+to+do+what+should+have+been+done" (archived).
               640.  See infra, Chapter 8.
               641.  See supra, Executive Summary. 
               642.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 27.
               643.  See Mariana Alfaro, Trump Vows Pardons, Government Apology to Capitol Rioters if Elected, Washington Post, (Sept. 1, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/09/01/trump-jan-6-rioters-pardon/.
               644.  Jordan Fischer, Eric Flack, and Stephanie Wilson, Georgia Man Who Wanted to Remove Some Craniums on January 6 Sentenced to More than 2 Years in Prison, WUSA9, (Dec. 14, 2021), available at https://perma.cc/RSY2-J3RU.
               645.  Dan Mangan, Capitol Rioter Garret Miller Says He Was Following Trumps Orders, Apologizes to AOC for Threat, CNBC, (Jan. 25, 2021), available at https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/25/capitol-riots-garret-miller-says-he-was-following-trumps-orders-apologizes-to-aoc.html. 
               646.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:01 p.m. ET, available at  https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22these+are+the+things+and+events%22 (archived).
               647.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Nicholas Luna, (Mar. 21, 2022), pp. 16667.
               648.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:01 p.m. ET, available at https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22these+are+the+things+and+events%22 (archived).
               649.  18 U.S.C. 372.
               650.  See Leader of Oath Keepers and Oath Keepers Member Found Guilty of Seditious Conspiracy
                  and Other Charges Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Nov. 29,
                  2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-oath-keepers-and-oath-keepers-member-found-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-and-other.
               651.  18 U.S.C. 2384. To establish a violation of section 2384, the government must establish (1) a conspiracy,
                  (2) to overthrow, put down, or destroy by force the Government of the United States,
                  or to levy war against them, or to oppose by force the authority thereof, or by force
                  to prevent, hinder or delay the execution of any law of the United States, or by force
                  to seize, take, or possess any property of the United States contrary to the authority
                  thereof. See United States v. Khan, 461 F.3d 477, 487 (4th Cir. 2006).
               652.  Leader of Oath Keepers and Oath Keepers Member Found Guilty of Seditious Conspiracy
                     and Other Charges Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (Nov. 29,
                     2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-oath-keepers-and-oath-keepers-member-found-guilty-seditious-conspiracy-and-other.
               653.  Leader of Proud Boys and Four Other Members Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious
                  Conspiracy and Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach, Department of Justice, (June 6, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-proud-boys-and-four-other-members-indicted-federal-court-seditious-conspiracy-and.
               654.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               655.  Brian Naylor, Read Trumps Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part of Impeachment Trial, NPR, (Feb. 10, 2021), available at https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
               656.  Kristen Holmes, Trump Calls for the Termination of the Constitution in Truth Social
                  Post, CNN, (Dec. 4, 2022), available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/12/03/politics/trump-constitution-truth-social/index.html.
               657.  See Mariana Alfaro, Trump Vows Pardons, Government Apology to Capitol Rioters if Elected,
                  Washington Post, (Sept. 1, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/09/01/trump-jan-6-rioters-pardon/.
               658.  See infra, Chapter 7.
               659.  167 Cong. Rec. H171-72 (daily ed. Jan. 13, 2021). 
               660.  See supra, Executive Summary.
               661.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 8487.
               662.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000008962_0009
                  (January 2, 2021, White House Presidential Call Log).  
               663.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM014864 (January 5, 2021,
                  text message from Rep. Jim Jordan to Mark Meadows describing the Vice Presidents
                  actions on January 6th).
               664.  See Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), P-R000255-259 (January 6, 2021, Presidential Daily Diary); Felicia Somnez, Rep. Jim Jordan Tells House Panel He Cant Recall How Many Times He Spoke with
                  Trump on Jan. 6, Washington Post, (Oct. 20, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/jordan-trump-calls-capitol-attack/2021/10/20/1a570d0e-31c7-11ec-9241-aad8e48f01ff_story.html. 
               665.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, (AT&amp;T Production, Feb. 9, 2022).
               666.   Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Rudolph Giuliani, (May 20, 2022), pp. 20507. 
               667.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (May 17, 2022), p. 106.
               668.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), pp. 7273. 
               669.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Mar. 7, 2022), pp. 6667.
               670.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 6264. 
               671.  See Sarah Lynch and David Shepardson, Watchdog to Probe if Justice Dept. Officials Improperly
                  Tried to Alter 2020 Election, Reuters, (Jan. 25, 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-justice/watchdog-to-probe-if-justice-dept-officials-improperly-tried-to-alter-2020-election-idUSKBN29U21E (Throughout the past four years, I worked with Assistant Attorney General Clark
                  on various legislative matters. When President Trump asked if I would make an introduction,
                  I obliged, Perry said in a statement.).
               672.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), p. 48.
               673.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (Feb. 23, 2022), p. 45.
               674.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (May 17, 2022), pp. 10607.
               675.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011449.
               676.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Mark Meadows Production), MM011506, (November 2020 text
                  messages from Rep. Andy Biggs to Mark Meadows).
               677.  Josh Kelety, Congressman Andy Biggs Coordinated Efforts with Mark Finchem before Capitol Riot, Phoenix New Times, (Feb. 18, 2021), available at https://www.phoenixnewtimes.com/news/congressman-andy-biggs-coordinated-with-mark-finchem-before-capitol-riot-11532527.
               678.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (Jim DeGraffenreid Production), DEGRAFFENREID 000554
                  (December 18, 2020, text messages between James DeGraffenreid, a Nevada fake elector
                  for Trump, and another remarking that Andy Biggs . . . has reached out to NV to ask
                  about our evidence).
               679.  Audrey Fahlberg, January 6 Hearings Become Fundraising Fodder, The Dispatch, (July 7, 2022), available at https://thedispatch.com/p/january-6-hearings-become-fundraising; Archive of Political Emails, Jim Jordan, The January 6th Committee Is After Me, June 9, 2022 12:41 p.m., available at https://politicalemails.org/messages/686023.
               680.  John Rowley III to the Honorable Bennie G. Thompson re: Subpoena to Representative
                  Scott Perry, (May 24, 2022), available at https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/22061774-scott-perry-j6-response.
               681.  Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, House Ethics Manual, p. 13 (2008).
               682.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R001080 (December
                  21, 2020, WAVES records showing Representatives Babin, Biggs, Brooks, Gaetz, Gohmert,
                  Gosar, Taylor Greene, Harris, Hice, Jordan, and Perry entering the White House).
               683.  See Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John Eastman, (Dec. 9, 2021); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Roger Stone, (Dec. 17, 2021);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Jeffrey Clark, (Feb. 2, 2022); Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Deposition of Michael Flynn, (Mar. 10, 2022).
               684.  Latif v. Obama, 677 F.3d 1175, 1193 (D.C. Cir. 2012) (quoting Mitchell v. United States, 526 U.S. 314, 328 (1999)). Justice Scalia not only agreed with this principle, but
                  he also reasoned that the Fifth Amendment does not prevent an adverse inference in
                  even criminal cases. This is because the text of that Amendment does not require such
                  a rule and applying an adverse inference to a refusal to testify is exactly in keeping
                  with normal evidentiary inferences. See Mitchell, 526 U.S. at 332 (Scalia, J., dissenting). Justice Thomas agreed with Justice Scalia.
                  See id. at 341-42 (Thomas, J., dissenting).
               685.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Michael Flynn, (Mar. 10, 2022), p. 82.
               686.  Trump v. Thompson, 20 F.4th 10, 15-16 (D.C. Cir. 2021), cert. denied, 142 S.Ct. 1350 (2022).
               687.  Trump v. Thompson, 20 F.4th 10, 89 (D.C. Cir. 2021) (citation omitted), cert. denied, 142 S.Ct. 1350 (2022).  Former President Trump also asked the United State Supreme
                  Court to block the Select Committee from accessing his documents. The Supreme Court
                  denied that request stating, Because the Court of Appeals concluded that President
                  Trumps claims would have failed even if he were the incumbent, his status as a former
                  President necessarily made no difference to the courts decision. Trump v. Thompson, 142 S.Ct. 680, 680 (2022) (citation omitted).
               688.  H. Res. 851, 117th Cong., (2021); H. Rept. 117-216, Resolution Recommending that
                  the House of Representatives Find Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for
                  Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st Sess. (2021),
                  available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt216/CRPT-117hrpt216.pdf. 
               689.  Statement of Interest of the United States at 9-10, Meadows v. Pelosi et al., No. 1:21-cv-03217 (CJN) (D.D.C. July 15, 2022), ECF No. 42.  
               690.  Thompson &amp; Cheney Statement on Justice Department Decisions on Contempt Referrals,
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  (June 3, 2022), available at https://january6th.house.gov/news/press-releases/thompson-cheney-statement-justice-department-decisions-contempt-referrals. 
               691.  Dennis Aftergut, Why the DOJ Did Not Indict Mark Meadows (and What It Should Do Next), NBC News,
                  (June 7, 2022), available at https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/trump-lackey-mark-meadows-escaped-january-6-prosecution-peter-navarro-rcna32319. 
               692.  H. Res. 1037, 117th Cong., (2022); H. Rept. 117-284, Resolution Recommending that
                  the House of Representatives Find Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  117th Cong., 2d Sess. (2022), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt284/CRPT-117hrpt284.pdf. In particular,  Scavino may have further information on President Trumps advance knowledge from social media
                  posts of the rioters plans to invade the Capitol.  See supra __.
               693.  H. Res. 730, 117th Cong., (2021); H. Rept. 117-152, Resolution Recommending that
                  the House of Representatives Find Stephen K. Bannon in Contempt of Congress for Refusal
                  to Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 117th Cong., 1st Sess. (2021), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt152/CRPT-117hrpt152.pdf. 
               694.  H. Res. 1037, 117th Cong., (2022); Peter Navarro Indicted for Contempt of Congress,
                  Department of Justice, (June 3, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/peter-navarro-indicted-contempt-congress; H. Rept. 117-284, Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find
                  Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by
                  the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  117th Cong., 2d Sess. (2022), available at https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt284/CRPT-117hrpt284.pdf. 
               695.  See infra 136.
               696.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (July 12, 2022), at 2;14:00-2:14:50, available at https://youtu.be/rrUa0hfG6Lo. 
               697.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), pp. 153-55; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Eric
                  Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 129-35; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony
                  Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 176-77; Select Committee to Investigate the January
                  6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson,
                  (May 17, 2022), pp. 104-06.
               698.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), at 2:22:05-2:23:41, available at https://www.youtube.com/live/Z4535-VW-bY?feature=share&amp;t=8525. 
               699.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of John McEntee, (Mar. 28, 2022), pp. 153-55; Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), at 2:23:41-2:24:42, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z4535-VW-bY&amp;t=8620s. 
               700.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), pp. 129-35, esp. pp. 130-131; Select Committee to Investigate the
                  January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), at 2:21:26-2:22:04, available at https://www.youtube.com/live/Z4535-VW-bY?feature=share&amp;t=8486.
               701.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Eric Herschmann, (Apr. 6, 2022), p. 133.
               702.  Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol (National Archives Production), 076P-R000005854_0001
                  (January 11, 2021, email from Molly Michael to Rep. Mo Brooks, confirming receipt
                  of email from Brooks recommending pardons, including for Every Congressman and Senator
                  who voted to reject the electoral college vote submissions of Arizona and Pennsylvania);
                  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 23, 2022), at 2:20:52-2:21:12, available at https://www.youtube.com/live/Z4535-VW-bY?feature=share&amp;t=8452.
               703.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                   Hearing on the January 6th Investigation, 117th Cong., 2d sess., (June 28, 2022), available at https://www.govinfo.gov/committee/house-january6th.
               704.  The Committee has enormous respect for the U.S. Secret Service and recognized that
                  the testimony regarding their work is sensitive for law enforcement, protectee security,
                  and national security reasons. See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of USSS Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), p. 4 (the Select
                  Committee is not releasing the name of this individual); Select Committee to Investigate
                  the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Anthony
                  Ornato, (Nov. 28, 2022), p. 4; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of USSS Employee, (Nov. 21, 2022),
                  p. 4; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States
                  Capitol, Transcribed Interview of USSS Employee, (Nov. 18, 2022), p. 4 Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview
                  of Robert Engel, (Nov. 17, 2022), p. 4.
               705.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of USSS Employee, (Nov. 7, 2022), pp. 4, 86-87.
               706.  See, e.g., Devlin Barrett, Jacqueline Alemany, Josh Dawsey, and Rosalind S. Heldeman, The Justice Dept.s Jan. 6 Investigation Is Looking at . . . Everything, Washington Post, (Sept. 16, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/09/15/trump-january-6-subpoenas-meadows/; Josh Dawsey and Isaac Arnsdorf, Prosecutors Seek Details from Trumps PAC in Expanding Jan. 6 Probe, Washington Post, (Sept. 8, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/09/08/trump-subpoenas-pac-jan-6/.
               707.  See Devlin Barrett, Josh Dawsey, and Isaac Stanley-Becker, Trumps Committee Paying for Lawyers of Key Mar-a-Lago
                  Witnesses, Washington Post, (Dec. 5, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/12/05/trump-witnesses-legal-bills-pac/. 
               708.  The Committee sat for dozens of hours with Hutchinson and concluded that she is brave
                  and earnest, and understood the intense backlash that would inevitably result from
                  those who were enlisted to defend President  Trumps behavior. [See infra, Chapter 7]. The thuggish behavior from President Trumps team, including efforts to
                  intimidate described elsewhere in this report (see e.g. Chapter 3), gave rise to many concerns about  Hutchinsons security, both in advance
                  of and since her public testimony. (We note that multiple members of the Committee
                  were regularly receiving threats of violence during this period.) Accordingly, the
                  Committee attempted to take appropriate measures to help ensure her safety in advance
                  of her testimony, including measures designed to minimize the risk of leaks that might
                  put her safety at risk.  
               709.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                     Transcribed Interview of Pasquale Anthony Pat Cipollone, (July 8, 2022), pp. 71-72
                     (noting that another witness reference may have been to Pat Philbin).
               710.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 264-65.
               711.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 52-57, 70-74, 282-88.
               712.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 142-45, 288-92. See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 12-15.
               713.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Deposition of Kayleigh McEnany, (Jan. 12, 2022), pp. 183-86.
               714.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), pp. 39-41.
               715.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Sarah Matthews, (Feb. 8, 2022), p. 41.
               716.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), pp. 38-39, 120, 205, 210, 213-14.
               717.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 27.
               718.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Julie Radford, (May 24, 2022), p. 19.
               719.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Ivanka Trump, (Apr. 5, 2022), p. 40.
               720.  Mark Meadows, The Chiefs Chief (Ft. Lauderdale, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021). 
               721.  Mark Meadows, The Chiefs Chief (Ft. Lauderdale, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 259.
               722.  Mark Meadows, The Chiefs Chief (Ft. Lauderdale, FL: All Seasons Press, 2021), p. 259.
               723.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 47-49.
               724.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Jan.y 28, 2022), pp. 76-77.
               725.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Mar. 29, 2022), pp. 46-47.  Ornato was interviewed
                  at length by the Select Committee in November 2022, after the Secret Service produced
                  nearly a million new internal documents in August and September of this year.
               726.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), p. 92; see also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Mar. 29, 2022), pp. 45-46 (stating that he
                  had not heard about President Trumps instruction to others to ask Ornato about going
                  to the Capitol).
               727.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Interview of White House employee with national security responsibilities, (July 19,
                  2022), pp. 69-70; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 4-6.
               728.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Interview of White House employee with national security responsibilities, (July 19,
                  2022), pp. 69-70; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20, 2022), pp. 4-6.
               729.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of  White House employee with national security responsibilities,
                  (July 19, 2022), pp. 69-70; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack
                  on the United States Capitol, Continued Interview of Cassidy Hutchinson, (June 20,
                  2022), pp. 4-7; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of USSS Employee Driver, (Nov. 7, 2022), pp.
                  77-80, 92-93; Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Mark Robinson, (July 7, 2022), pp. 17-18.
               730.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), pp. 104-105, 131-32, 135-36.
                  See also Chapter 7.
               731.  See, e.g., Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Transcribed Interview of General Mark A. Milley, (Nov. 17, 2021), p. 199 (describing
                  another senior intelligence official worrying, ahead of January 6th, about violence
                  at the Capitol); Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United
                  States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of Donnell Harvin, (Jan. 24, 2022), pp. 22-23
                  (former Chief of Homeland Security and Intelligence for the District of Columbia describing
                  the threat scene ahead of January 6th); Documents on file with the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (Capitol Police
                  Production), CTRL0000001532.0001, p.2 (January 5, 2021, FBI Situational Information
                  Report).
               732.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), pp. 54-56.
               733.  Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), pp. 55-56.
               734.  See supra pp. 81-83. See also Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol,
                  Continued Interview of Anthony Ornato, (Nov. 29, 2022), p. 13 (Ornato confirming that
                  one of his responsibilities was briefing the chief of staff and, through the chief
                  of staff at times, the President on security-related issues).
               735.  U.S. House of Representatives Debate on Impeachment of President Trump, C-SPAN,
                  at 1:03:53 - 1:13:42, Jan. 13, 2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?507879-4/debate-impeachment-president-trump; Tyler Moyer, McCarthy: President Bears Responsibility for Wednesdays Attack, Bakersfield Now, (Jan. 13, 2021), available at https://bakersfieldnow.com/news/local/mccarthy-president-bears-responsibility-for-wednesdays-attack.
               736.  House Minority Leader Weekly Briefing. C-SPAN, at 7:30 - 8:44, Jan. 21, 2021, available
                  at https://www.c-span.org/video/?508185-1/minority-leader-mccarthy-backs-gop-conference-chair-liz-cheney; Rudy Talaka, GOP Leader McCarthy Calls for Bipartisan Commission to Investigate Allegations
                  of Members Helping Rioters, Mediaite, (Jan. 21, 2021), available at https://www.mediaite.com/news/gop-leader-mccarthy-calls-for-bipartisan-commission-to-investigate-allegations-of-members-helping-rioters/; Rep. McCarthy Calls for Bipartisan Commission to Probe Capitol Riot, Newsmax,
                  (Jan. 22, 2021), available at https://www.newsmax.com/politics/kevin-mccarthy-capitol-riot-boebert-probe/2021/01/21/id/1006648/.
               737.  Clare Foran, Ryan Nobles, and Annie Grayer, Pelosi Announces Plans for 9/11-Type Commission
                  to Investigate Capitol Attack, CNN, (Feb. 15, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/02/15/politics/pelosi-capitol-attack-commission/index.html.
               738.  Letter to The Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy,
                  (Feb. 22, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/Sharp%20MX-4141_20210518_081238.pdf. 
               739.  Letter to The Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy,
                  (Feb. 22, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/Sharp%20MX-4141_20210518_081238.pdf. 
               740.  Letter to The Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy,
                  (Feb. 22, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/Sharp%20MX-4141_20210518_081238.pdf.
               741.  Ryan Nobles, Annie Grayer, and Jeremy Herb, Pelosi Concedes to Even Partisan Split
                  on 1/6 Commission in Effort to Jumpstart Talks, CNN, (Apr. 20, 2021), available at
                  https://www.cnn.com/2021/04/20/politics/nancy-pelosi-january-6-commission-talks/index.html; Ryan Nobles and Daniella Diaz, Pelosi Makes Concession on Subpoenas for 9/11 Style
                  Commission to Investigate Insurrection, CNN, (Apr. 22, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/04/22/politics/nancy-pelosi-911-style-commission-insurrection-subpoenas/index.html.
               742.  John Bresnahan, Anna Palmer, and Jake Sherman, Pelosi Taps Top Dem to Negotiate
                  on Jan. 6 Commission, Punchbowl News, (May 11, 2021), available at https://punchbowl.news/archive/punchbowl-news-am-5-11/.
               743.  Chairman Thompson Announces Bipartisan Agreement with Ranking Member Katko to Create Commission to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the Capitol, House Committee
                  on Homeland Security, (May 14, 2021), available at https://homeland.house.gov/news/press-releases/chairman-thompson-announces-bipartisan-agreement-with-ranking-member-katko-to-create-commission-to-investigate-the-january-6-attack-on-the-capitol.
               744.  McCarthy Statement on January 6 Commission Legislation, House Republican Leader
                  Kevin McCarthy, (May 18, 2021), available at https://www.republicanleader.gov/mccarthy-statement-on-january-6-commission-legislation/.
               745.  Pelosi Statement on McCarthy Opposition to January 6th Commission, Speaker of the
                  House Nancy Pelosi, (May 18, 2021), available at  https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/51821.
               746.  Pelosi Statement on McCarthy Opposition to January 6th Commission, Speaker of the
                  House Nancy Pelosi, (May 18, 2021), available at  https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/51821; Letter to The Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy,
                  (Feb. 22, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/Sharp%20MX-4141_20210518_081238.pdf.
               747.  Pelosi Statement on McCarthy Opposition to January 6th Commission, Speaker of the
                  House Nancy Pelosi, (May 18, 2021), available at  https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/51821. 
               748.  U.S. House of Representatives House Session, C-SPAN, at 4:12:23-4:12:55, May 19,
                  2021, available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?511820-2/houses-passes-bill-create-january-6-commission-252-175.
               749.  Roll Call 154 | Bill Number: H. R. 3233, Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives,
                  (May 19, 2021), available at https://clerk.house.gov/Votes/2021154?Page=1&amp;Date=05%2F19%2F2021.
               750.   Roll Call Vote 117th Congress - 1st Session, Question: On the Cloture Motion (Motion
                  to Invoke Cloture Re: Motion to Proceed to H.R. 3233), H.R. 3233 - 117th Congress
                  (2021): National Commission to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the United States
                  Capitol Complex Act, H.R.3233, 117th Cong. (2021), available at https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_votes/vote1171/vote_117_1_00218.htm.
               751.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi Announces Select Committee on the January 6th Insurrection,
                  C-SPAN, at 4:44-5:26, June 24, 2021, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=guCcy9tUfn8. 
               752.  Manu Raju and Clare Foran, Officer Injured in Capitol Riot asks McCarthy to Denounce GOP January 6 Conspiracies,
                  CNN, (June 25, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/06/25/politics/michael-fanone-kevin-mccarthy-meeting/index.html. 
               753.  Manu Raju and Clare Foran, Officer Injured in Capitol Riot asks McCarthy to Denounce GOP January 6 Conspiracies,
                  CNN, (June 25, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/06/25/politics/michael-fanone-kevin-mccarthy-meeting/index.html. 
               754.  Roll Call 197 | Bill Number: H. Res. 503, Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives,
                  (June 30, 2021), available at https://clerk.house.gov/Votes/2021197. 
               755.  Pelosi Names Members to Select Committee to Investigate January 6th Attack on the
                  U.S. Capitol, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, (July 1, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/7121-0. 
               756.  McCarthy Names House Republicans to Serve on Select Committees, House Republican
                  Leader Kevin McCarthy, (July 19, 2021), available at https://www.republicanleader.gov/mccarthy-names-house-republicans-to-serve-on-select-committees/.  
               757.  McCarthy Taps Banks to Lead Republicans on Jan 6 Committee, Congressman Jim Banks,
                  (Jul. 19, 2021), available at https://banks.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=1921.
               758.  Pelosi Statement on Republican Recommendations to Serve on the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Speaker of the House Nancy
                  Pelosi, (Jul. 21, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/72121-2.
               759.  Pelosi Statement on Republican Recommendations to Serve on the Select Committee
                  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, Speaker of the House Nancy
                  Pelosi, (Jul. 21, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/72121-2.
               760.  McCarthy Statement about Pelosis Abuse of Power on January 6th Select Committee,
                  Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, (July 21, 2021), available at https://republicanleader.house.gov/mccarthy-statement-about-pelosis-abuse-of-power-on-january-6th-select-committee/; McCarthy Pulls Republicans from Jan. 6 Select Committee after Pelosi Rejects Picks,
                  Axios, (July 21, 2021), available at https://www.axios.com/2021/07/21/pelosi-jim-jordan-banks-select-committee.
               761.  Pelosi Announces Appointment of Congressman Adam Kinzinger to Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, House
                  Speaker Nancy Pelosi, (July 25, 2021), available at https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/72521; 167 Cong. Rec. H3885 (daily ed. July 26, 2021).  
               762.  See, e.g., Eastman v. Thompson et al., No. 8:22-cv-99-DOC-DFM, 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 25546, at *12-14 (C.D. Cal. Jan. 25, 2022); Memorandum Opinion, Republican National Committee v. Nancy Pelosi et al. https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.241102/gov.uscourts.dcd.241102.33.0.pdf.
            
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
            
                  Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
