            Foreword: Speaker of the House
            
            
            
            
            
               THE LAST BEST HOPE OF EARTH
               
            
            
               I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United
               States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and
               allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation
               or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of
               the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God.
               
            
            
               All Members of the United States Congress take this sacred oath.  On January 6, 2021,
               Democrats and Republicans agreed that we would fulfill this oathand that we had an
               obligation to signal to the world that American Democracy would prevail.
               
            
            
               In furtherance of fulfilling this duty, the Select Committee to Investigate the January
               6th Attack on the United States Capitol was charged with investigating the facts,
               circumstances and causes that led to this domestic terror attack on the Capitol, the
               Congress and the Constitution.
               
            
            
               We owe a debt of gratitude to Chairman Bennie Thompson, Vice Chair Liz Cheney, the
               patriotic Members of Congress and dedicated staffwho devoted themselves to this investigation,
               to uncovering the truth and to writing a report that is a Roadmap for Justice.
               
            
            
               The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack has succeeded in bringing
               clarity and demonstrating with painstaking detail the fragility of our Democracy.
               Above all, the work of the Select Committee underscores that our democratic institutions
               are only as strong as the commitment of those who are entrusted with their care.
               
            
            
            
               As the Select Committee concludes its work, their words must be a clarion call to
               all Americans: to vigilantly guard our Democracy and to give our vote only to those
               dutiful in their defense of our Constitution.
               
            
            
               Let us always honor our oath to, as Abraham Lincoln said, nobly save, or meanly lose,
               the last best hope of earth.  So help us God.
               
            
            
               
               
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  NANCY PELOSI
                  
                  Speaker of the House
